RINGS OF DUST

Chapter Ten

Emily and Rachel walked into a long, dark hallway that extended in either direction. A cheerful fat Buddha statue sat underlit at each end. Small, warm lights shone sharply downward from the ceiling, casting down brilliant beams of light to the floors in focused beams. Yet the walls managed to escape any of the light. Two men in dark suits peeled off the wall as they entered — one ahead, one behind. They didn't announce themselves. They didn't look at Emily. That was the point. Directly ahead, a large, heavy set of double wooden doors loomed. They were decorated with sharp brass swathes and long polished bar handles. Rachel gripped one with her hand. Breathing deeply, she pushed forward.

The guards took up positions outside the doors. Emily noted the placement without turning around: flanking the exit, not the entrance.

Kicked back in a swivel chair, with his feet atop his wide mahogany desk, a man in a gray suit lounged. Beyond him, the floor-to-ceiling windows revealed giant passing clouds.  On either wall, a dozen televisions showed live news feeds and sports. Racheal was sitting at an anchor desk on one of the screens. Emily looked at her, finally realizing where she recognized her from. Racheal blushed. Emily noticed. The man quickly got out of his seat and stood up. 

"Emily Nova, It's a pleasure to meet you." He moved towards Emily with casual, wide strides. "I'm Marcus Verguld."

A chill went down Emily's spine. She stalled to buy herself time.

"How much are you going to pay me to stay quiet about your goons?"

Marcus shifted towards Rachel. "Ms. Vayes, can you please elaborate?"

"There were complications, sir."

"Oh? What kind?" Marcus said.

"The kind that requires a," Rachel's shoulders hunched forward, "a clean-up crew, sir."

With a grand wave of his hand, Marcus dismissed her. 

"Oh, yes. Already handled. Don't you worry your little head about that?" 

He sat on his desk with his shoulders back wide. 

"Now, Emily. Look, business is just business. I won't let you blackmail me because that simply does not work." He leaned forward slightly. "The Golden Dawn launched seven days ago. Payload: approximately forty kilograms of Darker Matter crystals, Day Five shelf life on departure. Your brother has eleven days before the yield becomes inert — if my people's calculations are correct, and they usually are. What I want to know is what else is aboard that ship that isn't listed on the Federation manifest." He let that land. "So. Tell me what I want to know about your brother."

"He farts in his sleep, and snores. He's late on paying the phone bill. He drinks too much. Oh, and he has an unhealthy relationship with a four-armed monkey that drinks hand sanitizer." Emily offered.

He shuffled around on the desk, moving his hands as if juggling his ideas. He waxed lyrical. 

"Let's imagine the news story. Your little agent got mugged, didn't he? Greenbaum, was it? He must have told the wrong person about his upcoming payday. He was there to collect your bribe money, was he not? To keep your side hustle under wraps? And, uh, you were kidnapped for the cash, and maybe you were dumped in a field. Sometimes people get kidnapped and are never seen again, you know?"

Emily gulped hard.

"Lucky for you, our favorite public star, Ms. Vayes, just so happened to be driving by and saved a woman in need. Now, obviously, you don't want your illegal activities exposed. This will play out very well for us and very poorly for you." Marcus said.

"I don't know what you're talking about." Emily defended.

"Sure you do," Marcus insisted. "Does our unreliable friend Cole know about your dirty deals?"

Emily saw a gap in Marcus's armor. A subtle tell that he is no stranger to discussing complex topics with little to no real knowledge of the details.

"With a past like his," Marcus said, "do you really want to add your dirty laundry to his pile?" 

"Cole's a big boy. He can take care of himself. Besides, he's a little busy at the moment."

"Don't you know I have eyes and ears everywhere? Don't you know the Federation is crawling with MY employees? There's only one reason to take on a mission as expensive as Saturn right now."

Emily could tell he was bluffing. Something didn't add up.

Marcus went to his desk. The glass surface inlaid in it served as a touch screen. With a few finger taps, the bays of screens on the walls flooded with Cole's face and information. Everything from medical records to his Federation transcripts and grade school photos was laid bare.

Emily looked at the man standing at the desk.

She knew that face. Not from files or briefings. From a specific afternoon when Cole had a bloody lip and this boy's knee on his chest, and her pulling him off by the collar and putting him on the ground in front of his friends. He had looked up at her from the dirt like he couldn't quite believe it. She hadn't given him time to decide what to do about it.

"I've kicked your ass before," Emily said. "Be aware that I will do it again."

Something moved behind Marcus's eyes. Not embarrassment. The quiet calculation of someone deciding whether a thing is relevant.

"You have a good memory," he said. "Does this information look familiar?"

It did. In fact, it was a copy of the thumb drive she and Sharon were given in Vegas. On one of the screens, known relatives were displayed.

"We expected a drive with this info to be delivered along with the crystals you dropped off," Marcus said. "Luckily, we are getting pretty good at contingency plans."

"We," Emily said. "Not I. Me and Sharon delivered your god-damn Dark Matters right before she was shot and you kidnapped me. Cole kept the drive."

Emily felt her heart pounding. 

"Cole's heart is gonna break when he hears about Sharon."

The glint in Marcus's eye told Emily that she had just played her last card. Her knees almost buckled in regret. Her head spun. 

"Let's make some phone calls. We'll get you a ride home, and you can think of this whole ordeal as a bad dream," he said.

Now that Marcus had evaluated the threat that Emily posed, she was no longer of value. He was bored with her. 

Emily glanced at Rachel. 

"People will be looking for me."

Marcus pursed his lips.

"A little paperwork, and that goes away too. You get your life back, and the Federation leaves you alone. So what do you say?"

Emily didn't know what to do or say. Her instincts told her she had to leave. She'd have to pull herself together to fix this.

"Yeah."

Marcus hissed through his teeth, "Rachel, please see that Ms. Nova is taken care of."

Rachel's pale expression told Emily that they needed to get moving. Rachel took Emily by the elbow and escorted her out the door. In the elevator, Emily couldn't help but vent her frustration.

"Rachel, what was that?" Emily demanded.

Rachel didn't look at her but kept a stolid face toward the elevator buttons, counting down. Rachel looked towards the security camera in the elevator

"Careful," she said, and Emily took the hint.

The elevator opened to the parking garage. Emily turned to really observe Rachel.

"What is Marcus going to do to Cole?"

A taxi came into full view and pulled up to Rachel and Emily.

"Please. Nothing happened. For both of us, nothing happened, all right?"

Emily felt disgusted with herself.

"Nothing happened. Got it."
