RINGS OF DUST

Chapter Thirteen


Emily grabbed her car keys and went downstairs. She looked over her sedan for anything suspicious: bombs, zip ties, etc.  She opened the car door to find a note lay on the driver's seat.

Emily, meet me at pier 9 - R

 She thought to pop the hood and make sure the engine was in order. All good. She drove to the nearest mobile phone shop, where she transferred her contacts from the old one to a new phone. She had the old phone completely wiped of all data, and left it in the recycling bin. With her new phone, she promptly installed a suite of protective apps, and reached out to the first person she could think of.

She installed an encrypted messaging program before texting

With her new phone, and the letter on the dashboard, Emily cruised along Highway 101. She noticed the rolling vineyard hills in a way she hadn’t before. Brushing up against death has a way of changing your perspective, she thought. The road to the pier was winding, like a spaghetti bowl of roads that circled in all directions. The area was covered in adorable seaside homes. The way to the pier required paid parking, which still annoyed her even with her new perspective.

A planked foot path led down to the pier into the scent of the ocean and the distant cries of seagulls.

“These people watch you. Watch everyone, to be honest. They’re more dangerous now. You just kicked a hornet's nest a mile wide.”

Emily's eyes filled with dread. “I thought it was over.”

Rachel doubtfully said, “I don't think so. There's no cell service in this one spot. Not for any of the major service providers.”

Emily grew curious. “Rachel, thank you for helping me.”

Rachel sighed. “A Corp will take advantage of any opportunity they get. They’re truly vile and disgusting.”

Emily rebuked her. “Then why are you helping them?”

“I’m on a very different side than it appears. Our guys were suppose to take out greenbaum sooner, but your friend was too brave and blocked their shot”

“Her name was Sharon. And at this point They’ve only left me with Cole. God only knows where he is and what danger he’s in”

Rachel looked like she understood where Emily was coming from and she had some answers. “ Cole is circling saturn collecting the most valuable resource in the universe”

“How in the world do you know that?”

Because our guys have spent the last of our resources following him out there. Cole  is a pawn in a much larger game, and he’s in great danger unless we can figure out how to obtain some game changing information. We need to find the experimental project Dr. Conrad was working on, but I have to stay here and continue gaining data from Alpha. You need to go to Texas and follow Vance Black. He’s on the same errand but for the Federation. If the federation gets it it’s just going to be buried again. If you want to live to see Cole come back? Get with the program!”

Reveal to Emily that Rachel is part of the collective.

Emily felt defensive. “I'm not getting with any program. You sound just like Marcus sometimes. I don’t like it.”

“Eww, don’t say that.” Racheal said. “What I’m saying is, don’t give up on yourself either.”

The palm trees swayed, unlike Emily’s will “For me? If you give me a solution because my brother is important, then you and the collective don’t stand for what you think. ” Emily asked, barely controlling the rage she felt.

Rachel's face tightened. “You’re right. It’s bullshit. It’s not ideal. It’s unfair. But, you’re too important to lose. You were supposed to be some petty black market dealer. But then I met you, and you showed me the nova family produces true heroes.”

“Does flattery every get you what you want?” Emily asked. “Well, I mean with women?.

They laughed.

Heroes,” Emily said. “Calm down.” She rolled her eyes

Emily walked to the edge of the weathered pier. The horizon began its slow descent into evening. Sunlight poured over her; its brillance filtere–muted–through the coastal haze. The deep blue water littered with trash. The wooden planks, worn by time and the salt of the sea, creaked underfoot as Sharon approached Emily. Emily turned her head, and a glint of golden light held her softly. As the sun dips lower, its reflection stretches across the water. The bustling sounds of the day recede, replaced by the rhythmic lapping of waves against the pier's pillars below. All together, it became a reminder of the beauty that exists in the transient–the Sun’s quiet goodby as it promises to rise again. 

The sky darkened, and stars began to twinkle in the vast expanse above. Emily crossed her arms for warmth and looked to the sky. Rachel leaned against the banister next to Emily. 

“We have a possible solution. You go where they’d least expect you. We need you in Texas. No flights or cards. And you’ll need to use burners. You’ll take one of the Collectives cars.”

“Oh will I?” Emily said with an exaggerated eyebrow. “And what about you? What will you do?&quot;

&quot;I'll keep digging, keep pushing back against A Corp and the federation. There's more to unearth, and I have a voice–even if I have to slip it through their network. You, on the other hand, need to be a bit more unseen.&quot; 

Emily leaned towards Rachel until their slender shoulders touched. &quot;Visible? Rachel, I'm marked by those bastards. How do you disapear when they apparently have eyes everywhere?&quot;

&quot;There's always a way to turn the spotlight to your advantage,” Rachel smiled, a hint of mischief in her eyes. “We’ll them see what you want them to see. And Emily, if anyone can do that, it's you. You've got that Nova spark.&quot;

“There you go again,” Emily said. 

A pause settled between them. Emily turned and walked back toward the parking lot. Rachel followed just behind her, watching Emily walk with dedication.

&quot;The Collective needs leaders. Cole would do the same for you. &quot;

“Yeah, Cole's definitely causing trouble. Let's just hope it's the good kind.&quot; She glanced at the car Sharon arrived in. Sharon tossed her the keys. 

Emily slid into the cool leather seats and started the engine. Rachel stepped back, her figure silhouetted against the fading light. 

&quot;Drive safe, E. And remember, we're all behind you. No matter what happens, you're not alone.&quot;


With a nod, Emily pulled away, the car's headlights cutting through the twilight. Rachel watched until the tail lights disappeared, her thoughts a mix of hope and fear for her friend, for their cause, and for the uncertain future that lay ahead.

The parking lot had been beyond her view while she was speaking with Rachel. Emily's mind reeled at the possibilities and implications of the whole situation. She drove until she the fuel light promised she wouldn’t make it much farther. Emily pulled over   at a corner store and checked her car just as sharon taught her.  She filled up on gas, bought a few cans of high-octane caffeine, and began what promised to be a long drive. To Texas. To the east the night would become so dark that the stars shone through the unfathomable black-blue of deep, dry desert skies.

She caught herself trying to count joshua trees as they whizzed past her. It filled her with visions of creeping ancient plants. Plants that had feasted on the carbon dioxide of cars in a devil's deal: the cars help the plants grow, saving water with tighter pores; yet the water would be abused by thoughtless humans who could have thought ahead. 

Yellow lines zipped past her on the road. The mile markers became a steady blur, and Emily lost herself to thoughts about thoughtlessness: a person doesn't usually abuse another when they know they're doing it. Asking herself if she had any self-awareness in the cupboards. If Sharon had thought of her as selfish. The weight of her mission pressed heavily on her, thoughts of Cole and the looming dangers swirling. The desert stretched out endlessly on either side; as silenct and secret as her thoughts of Rachel.

Her eyes strained. Emily could feel the thrum of her heart under her tightening grip s. She relaxed her grip. The monotonous drone of the engine and the continuous blur of the passing landscape melded into a hypnotic rhythm. Without warning, the serene hum of the road's embrace violently ripped away. 

“BRRRRRRRRRRRT,” The sudden roar of the rumble strips tore through the silence. The steering wheel vibrated fiercely in her hands, a wild animal trying to escape its cage. She jolted awake to terror. The passenger tires were sinking into the dusty shoulder, and scrubby bush ground against the passenger side of the car. An alarm echoed across the empty desert. Her heart catapulted into her throat. A surge of adrenaline wiped the fog of fatigue from her brain. The cold splash of calamity. With a desperate tug, she steered the vehicle back onto the smooth surface of the road–the sudden silence as jarring as the noise had been. Her breathing was ragged, chest heaving. 

The adrenaline slowly receded, leaving a shaky determination in its wake. The car's violent protest against the rumble strips etched itself into her mind; no room for error. With a deep breath, she focused on the road ahead. She flared her nostrils and exhaled hard, waking herself up to bright new levels. One or two sizzling sets of headlights were now visible on the horizon, where black earth met the saphire glow of dawn. 

Tonight the Arizona desert spread wide ahead. She suspected he would be sleeping at the Federation Space Command Headquarters in Houston.She watched the crescent moon rise high over the eastern  horizon. She popped another energy drink open. By sheer determination, she would make it at least to the outskirts of Phoenix. To one of the many, soulless motels in Surprise, Arizona.
