






                                 DARK MATTER

                       By Robert Ennis and Max Bonnett

                                Read only by

                              your own consent

                          to darkest depths of all

                     and shine bright as you rise again

                               and feel beyond

                            what's held in thrall



                    ©2023 Mint Antigravity & Robert Ennis

                           www.RobertEnnisArt.com






CHAPTER 1



"Holy crap. Drop that!"

The monkey dropped the bright blue container it was holding in one of its
six limbs.
Out of the side of the monkey's mouth a dark fluid ran down to his fur.

Cole reached out and knocked it away from the macaque, making sure the
foolish animal didn't take another swig. The label read, "10-40 Motor oil.
Synthetic."

"You goofy bastard. You know I love you, but you have GOT to stop. Weren't
the pancakes enough?"

The human and the monkey regarded each other.
In the background, a news anchor's face filled a computer monitor, and her
voice filled the silence between them.

"... in official statements from the governor's office on the rising
mortality rate caused by Gravity Sickness, a wasting disease that affects
literally billions of people across the planet. The good news is that Alpha
Alpha Corp now offers life-extending implants that work on a subscription
basis."

With visible dismay, Cole changed the video to brightly animated cartoons.
He pointed to the screen and asked the monkey, "No point crying over
spilled motor oil. There, does that make it better?"

In the eyes of the monkey, Cole was a rude fellow monkey who insisted on
denying him this delectable drink.
The monkey pouted and flipped him off with two hands, while giving thumbs
up in approval with the other two hands.

Cole inquired, "Close enough, then?"

In the eyes of the human, Bitboi Leroy was a rude but often amusing animal
that insisted on drinking every possible liquid he could get his metal,
clawed hands on. He folded his many arms and frowned, yet still watched the
cartoons.

"I don't know what to do with you, Bitboi. I mean, they make things
childproof, but how do I make something monkey-proof? What's it gonna be
next? Antifreeze? Windex? Saline solution?"
Cole demanded, huffing at the awareness that the monkey would pay him no
heed.

Cole paused for a breath, then chuckled at the absurdity of it all.

The macaque froze, his eyes fixated on the monitor while reflections of
cartoons flashed in his languid eyes.

Cole wondered how much of the plot of the cartoon the animal really
understood.
"Well, let's get that oil out of you. I'm calling the good doctor."

Observing the beer cans that littered the floor, he noted in a flat tone,
"At this rate we'll never get healthy."
He checked his watch and mused, "I wonder what Emily would say."

Cole hastened to the medicine cabinet and took out a bottle of sedative. He
drew his phone from his pocket and tapped a name on his contact list. It
rang once before a woman's voice answered. Getting straight to the point,
she asked "Bring the stomach pump?"
"Yep."

"Aren't you going to call a real doctor?" her voice buzzed through the
speaker.

"No way am I getting in trouble again."

Sharon was curious. "Why was there a bottle of motor oil laying around in
the living room anyhow?"

Cole rubbed his eyelids. "I got it for my Jeep, must've snuck in with the
milk I got last week. You coming?"

"I'm 15 minutes out, already on my way. I still have it in my car from last
time. See you in a sec."

Using his glinting robotic augments, the monkey pointed at the monitor. He
laughed aloud at the colorful moving figures on the screen.

Cole laughed with him, or maybe just near him.

His eyes narrowed. "Leroy. Want a drink?"

The monkey took sudden interest, and guzzled the medicine. Within minutes
he was unconscious.

Then came a familiar knock at the front door.

Cole opened it a crack, and winced at the bright sunlight that dazzled
across the pines and snow beyond before turning his gaze to his visitor.
"Good, it's you. Hey pretty girl."

Here stood a slender woman with dark hair framing her oval face. She winked
at him with one of her hazel eyes. Cole couldn't help but notice a gentle
Egyptian oud perfume on her fur coat.

"You know how owls can freeze mice with their screech? You do that to me
with your eyes."

She carried a heavy black briefcase that made her sway slightly when she
walked.

"Are you trying to flirt with me? Well hello to you, my handsome fella.
Alright, tell me about our patient."

"Ah yes, thank you, doctor. A monkey doing monkey business today. Shall
we?"

She swept through the door into the cabin. She noted the delicious smell of
bacon and pancakes wafting from the kitchen. While she unpacked the stomach
pump, her own belly grumbled.
"Did you eat breakfast without me?"

Without missing a beat, Cole protested.
"I made at least a dozen pancakes, and I left a few for you. At least I
think I did." he mumbled, uncertain.

She frowned. "Here, hold him for me while I get this in."

The long tube descended down the macaque's throat, and with the push of a
button the device hummed to life, pulling putrid black sludge up with every
beat. As it worked, she bit her lips in thought.
"Have you ever heard of that experiment about the kids and the
marshmallows? If they could wait they'd get two of them, but most gave in
to instant gratification. You wouldn't know anything about that, would
you?"

"You'll get your pancakes, Doctor. Don't you worry about a thing. I made
extra just for you."

The machine purged the last of the oil out of the unfortunate monkey,
though he was still sound asleep.

Sharon removed the tube, stood up and went to the kitchen sink to wash her
hands. With a single glance around the place she easily calculated that
exactly no pancakes remained.

She called out to Cole, "What? You want to screw me but you don't want to
feed me. Is that it?"

"It must have been the macaque!"

Not missing a beat, she joked, "I don't give a damn what you do with your
cock. I came over for pancakes, Cole. What the hell does that coolant-
chugging ape have to do with you making me pancakes?" she insisted, hand on
her hip as she took stock of the kitchen.

Cole got up and pulled ingredients from the shelves, dropped butter onto
the skillet and turned on the stove. He grabbed a mixing bowl and poured
flour and milk into it, then stirred them with a whisk.
"I'm on it!"

He glanced back at Bitboi Leroy, and corrected her. "You know, he's a
monkey, not an ape."

"It's an abomination. Have you ever seen a primate with six limbs? With
metal claws? That drinks diesel? That thing is disgusting. If I were you,
I'd send it back to the lab and get back to real work instead of
babysitting."

Cole ignored her terse words, and admired her. She was wearing a puffy mink
coat over a wrap-dress that was held in place by a wide belt. The dress
draped over black leggings, accented by tall boots that made her look like
she'd robbed a Star Wars costume wardrobe.
When his gaze returned to her delicate face, Cole snapped his attention
back to the conversation.

"I'm working. I AM working. You just don't recognize it... YET."

She intoned, "I don't want to come across as selfish, but I have to say it.
It's either me," she commented with mock venom, "or that disgusting
animal."

Cole gritted his teeth. "His name is Bitboi Leroy, and HE is more precious
to me than anything. He was with me out there... at the accident. Everyone
else tends to go away. You know I adore you, Sharon. An ultimatum isn't
going to go your way."

She changed her approach. "You don't know how to take a joke, do you?" Her
expression soured, and Sharon wandered out of the kitchen, to the mantle
over the fireplace. She analyzed a photo of smiling people in space suits.
"You should still be flying, 'Cole Nova'."

Cole stopped mixing the batter. "I'm not going back to Saturn. I'm not
flying again. I can't."

Sharon returned to the kitchen and pulled a plastic bin of hummus out of
the teal refrigerator, along with some cheese crackers sitting on top of
it, and made herself a plate.

She raised her eyebrows as if to point at the mixing bowl.
"You're taking too long."

Cole furrowed his brow and developed a wry smile. "Didn't the great poet
once write, 'Tell the name of the flower or love, made more lovely by
forcing it wide as a bud, or the splendor of a star wrenched from heavens
above'?

He was relieved that the poetry had the intended effect of making her
laugh.
"I think you wrote that." she preened.

Cole rested in the door jamb of the kitchen, with his elbow over his crown
and hand supporting his own head. He carefully slowed down his speech,
picking each word with care.
"I, uh, I think I know what this is really about. Sharon, I don't want to
open any wounds. You know this little guy is like a child to me. I can't
lose him too."

The moments passed. Sharon set the plate down on the kitchen table. At
first her cold eyes watered. Her cheeks went red. Her condescending
attitude disappeared entirely.
She went to the sink, touching the empty plates with crumbs still on them,
distracting herself from the hot tears pouring down her cheeks.

"You son of a bitch. You son of a bitch, Cole. You still have your sister.
You still have a family."

Cole turned around and tried to console her, putting his arms around her
shoulders. He peppered her forehead with kisses.

Sharon gazed up at him. "Did you know she's sick?"

Cole's face fell. "Yes, I knew. The physicians say she has another year or
two, but she has it."

She gathered herself and implored of him, "You could be out there living
life. Or you can sit here and keep monkeying around."

Cole stood, helpless. The butter sizzled in the skillet without batter.

Sharon grasped the sides of her head and strode out.
"I lost a child already to it, but I am moving forward. Life goes on,
Cole."

She flopped onto the couch, facing away from him.

Cole said nothing, but he turned off the stove.

In the living room, Bitboi Leroy stirred, and returned his attention to his
cartoons, oblivious to the woman's eyes that bored into the back of his
skull.

After a deep breath, Sharon spoke again,
"I got another letter for you. It's from the Council."

Although his mind had been on the monkey and on pancakes and on the metric
volume of fuel needed to go to Saturn and literally anything else, Cole
fixated on what she'd just said.
"Wait. Did you open it?" he asked.

"Yes, of course I opened it. It came to my address."

"What did it say?!" he insisted, sitting on the couch beside her.

Sharon cast her gaze around the log cabin, at the mounds of dirty laundry
and empty food cans on the floor.

"Only that the council wants to see you immediately. I guess you'll have to
come out of hiding, Mr. Jameson. Or is it Mr. Nova?"

His countenance turned defensive. "I'm NOT in 'hiding'. I'm living my life
without the Council, and they can say or do whatever they want. It's been
five years, Sharon. Five YEARS, and they think they can put a leash on me
and run me around like a dog? Do they? I can't put another crew at risk...
But... Emily..."

His voice trailed off, and his eyes puffed up red around the edges.

The heat of his pain emanated off him in waves.

Sharon proffered, "I don't know if I should feel like I'm in danger, or if
I should feel satisfied."

"How do you mean?"

She blinked, and commented, "That's the first real emotion I've seen out of
you in months."

She pulled something out from her mauve coat's inner pocket, a yellow,
standard size envelope. She got up from the couch and slapped it to Cole's
chest, but she did not actually hand it to him. Instead she withdrew it,
holding it hostage.

"This came in the mail today. Or yesterday."

The monkey turned around and looked expectantly at Cole, and Cole stared
back into the animal's eyes. He noticed how the metal implements in Leroy's
arms twined around the muscles in such an unnatural way.

He felt that the macaque also felt sympathy for the man, and he felt an
instant compassion for the unlucky beast. There was still motor oil on
Leroy's cheek.

Cole's mind reeled as he wondered what was in the envelope.

"Enough with the theatrics, Sharon."

"You're one to talk. Now, don't you want me to tell you what it says,
Cole?"

His mind ran off to consider running his race car off the track. Maybe he
would enroll in an auto derby. Maybe he'd die and be free from all of this.
No more bills to pay, no more nightmares. Just...

He snorted, "Hand it to me."

With evident resentment, she extended the envelope to him across the vast
expanse that separated her from him on the sofa, holding the envelope in
her fingertips as though it contained a plague.

He snatched it. The torn yellow envelope was in his right hand. Now his
finger ran across the already-ragged edge.

He cast a glance at Sharon and shrugged with a bitter smile, more of a
grimace.
"I guess I'll have to call the pit crew about canceling the big race this
week."

Her eyes glowed darkly, and he sensed what could be interpreted as either
disappointment or anticipation.

He commented, "Sharon, you're impossible to read."

She snapped at him, either in eagerness or anger, "Just read the letter!"

He delicately pulled crisp white papers from the envelope.

In the upper left-hand corner, the unmistakable stamp of the Council's
insignia was emblazoned over a return address.

Cole felt a shudder along his spinal column as his guts wrenched at
whatever he might read next.

The words on the page seemed to disappear as memories overtook his
imagination. Even his constant trickle of self-medication was not enough to
bury them, as the Council's mark broke them free with the power of a
crowbar.

Sharon asked, "Is everything alr-"

But he was already gone, overwhelmed by visions.

He saw the broken helmet of De La Cruz and the ruptured suit of Corporal
Gherig spraying gas into the emptiness of space and sending him hurtling
untethered into endless nothing. He watched Corporal Walters cooked alive
in his own suit... but he was shaken from his dark reverie with Sharon's
tense voice.

"What does it say?" she asked, already full-well knowing the answer, and
they both knew it.

He had to take a moment to breathe and get the ringing out of his ears.

She rested her head on her hand, with her arm resting on the back of the
sofa.
"Another daydream?"

"No, I'm fine."
His eyes proceeded down the page, and he read each line out loud, tracing
the characters with a shaking index finger.

"From the desk of Federation Chancellor Peter McCorbage Vayes
Mr. Cole Jameson, formerly known as Cole Nova, your assistance is required
by the Federal Council. The Council has taken into full consideration many
factors before making our decision.

We are in possession of a copy of a paper with your signature, which
legally waives your various rights as a United States citizen on September
12th, 2021 as part of your agreement to join the Stellar Council Forces.
Your duty to the Council is ongoing.

It is with supreme displeasure, Mr. Jameson, that we report to you the dire
nature of the ongoing condition of humanity suffering under Gravitosis or
"Gravity Sickness". Our committee finds you to be uniquely qualified as fit
for service to the task of returning to Saturn to harvest more Dark Matter.

Our experts have determined that Dark Matter cures Gravitosis.

Pack your things, Mr. Jameson. An escort will fetch you and your animal
assistant shortly to bring you to the Federal Space Command Headquarters.
You are already under our watchful eye.

We need the old Cole Nova back. The world is depending on you.

- Federation Chancellor Peter McCorbage Vayes

P.S. This letter will self-destruct in three minutes. Please place it in a
fire- proof can before that."

Cole crumpled the letter and threw it into a garbage pail as it began to
smoke.
"Sharon, I need to see Emily before I go. And, I need to load up my bags
for me and for Leroy."

Sharon inquired, "So now you'll do it? Do we finally get to see the old
'Cole Nova'?"

With a slight smirk, Cole commented, "Who? The pride and joy of NASA? The
space cowboy, code name 'Jackpot'? I never left."

His phone vibrated with a new message.
 "Outside. You have 30 minutes to be ready."

He scowled. "The bastards. I need more time!"
In the same breath he reeled. "Cures it. Cures it? Emily!"

His attention was drawn to the sudden clattering of dishes in the kitchen.

"Wait, where is Leroy?"

"The monkey?" Sharon asked.

They both bolted towards the kitchen, and Cole quipped,
"Hey, you got it right. Apes don't have tails, and-"

They both stopped dead in their tracks.

The macaque was on top of the washing machine when he spotted them, and
dropped a big laundry detergent bottle. He offered them an appeasing grin,
but blue liquid coated his teeth.

The pair laughed in mutual despair. "Again?!"




CHAPTER 2



The sunset shone dark magenta through the huge tinted windows. Plastic
plants framed the view on either side of the room, marking the points at
which a man in a sharp suit and tie paced back and forth, glancing at a
dozen news feeds on a dozen televisions on each wall.

He mumbled to himself, as if taking notes, "S&P is up. Good. Another
crackdown in Xinjiang? Better, uh... Hmm. Better set up a dealer in Skardu.
War in Afghanistan. Lithium will be cheaper. Unrest in Peru. Wildlife
prices will be very good. Good. Good."

With his mobile phone in hand, he dialed a number. "Yeah, Felix? Felix. How
are ya buddy. Yeah. Yeah, no. Great. Uh huh? Yes, the contest was easy. No,
I nailed it. Next Thursday? Yeah we can do that. Get the boys together and
make sure you practice. We're going to crush the Rizzo brothers on stage.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah my legs are still sore. Who knew dancing could be such a
workout, am I right? Alright, bud. Alright. Yeah? No, no, it's all in
order. Yeah. Nobody likes hearing they have an ugly baby, but facts are
facts, and money talks. I have to tell you, for each of the last six
quarters gravity sickness has been the goose that lays golden eggs. Maximum
profits for the biomedical sector. Totally cornered it. Yeah. Nah. Yeah.
No, we have some new products coming out, some stimulants we haven't had a
reason to release before. No it's totally new, it plays with mitochondiral
DNA and repairs the cellular membrane to a proprietary filter, you know
blah blah and all that jargon. No, we're talking pennies on the dollar.
Jump in before we go public with it. Get your bids in and it'll go big.
Yeah. Uh huh. Uh huh. Hang on, Felix I have a call coming in. Let me call
you back. Yeah, byeee."

A few feet away, on a vast mahogany desk, a tiny intercom buzzed. A woman's
voice came through. "Mr. Marcus, phone call on line 1. It's Arcturus."

Marcus paused his pacing. "Put him through."

The line buzzed with static for an instant and transferred to his pocket
phone. He picked it up and answered.

"Mr. Marcus, how's business?"

"Business is business. What do you have for me?"

"Is this line secure?"

"Obviously. What do you have?"

"Jackpot has been reactivated."

Marcus fell silent.

Arcturus asked, "Mr. Marcus, are you there?"

Marcus bit his lip so hard that it bled, hung up the phone and placed his
hand on the window. The brilliant magenta of the sky was dimming as the sun
set. In another heartbeat, a cruel smile spread across his face and he
chuckled to himself.

"Who am I kidding? This is going to be fun."




CHAPTER 3



As pine trees and aspens whizzed along past the car windows, Ricardo
negotiated the winding country road with careless ease. Around another
bend, he pulled up to the gravel by a single log cabin and idled the
engine. He observed that there were two vehicles parked outside of the
cabin before pulling out his phone, took a photo of them, and then scoured
his contact list for a specific name.

COLE NOVA
555-5813

He texted: "Outside. You have 30 minutes to be ready."

Ricardo cracked open a lukewarm energy drink, and took a sip before setting
it back in the cup holder. Then he waited, wondering out loud, "Why would
they dig this far down for a pilot?"

Before long, the front door of the cabin swung open and beautiful woman
emerged, donning a fur coat and holding a briefcase.
Behind her, a disheveled-looking man strode out in a tracksuit, while
hoisting a duffel bag over one shoulder. His other hand was gripping the
paw of a-

"Now wait a minute. Does that monkey have four arms? What the in the
world?" Ricardo murmured.

He got out and opened the back door.

"Cole Nova? Ready to be an Astro again or did you abort?"

"Jackpot. In the flesh. Good to see you, Ricardo. Are you coming along for
the ride of your life? Here, help me with this bag."

"Who's the lady?"

Sharon stamped forward, suddenly aggressive. "I can speak of my own accord,
Mr. Corazon."
She softened up before continuing. "Excuse my manners. Cole has told me so
much about you."

Ricardo jested, "Nothing good I hope. Say, don't you two look like a
perfect fit?"

Cole immediately responded, "Yes we do. Don't we, Honey?"

Sharon realized she had an opportunity to help their relationship grow like
a garden. With her hands on the shears, of course, but a garden
nonetheless.

Almost as if she'd rehearsed this a thousand times after their first date
ended well for her, and the combination she'd come up with delighted her to
finally show off.

From across the driveway, Ricardo may not yet have been consciously aware
of the fact that he was playing a power game, but he felt like shooting
from the hip in this one. To his chagrin, he knew he was losing right now,
but he'd always have more chances to test Cole's mettle.

Ricardo admired that Cole stood his ground this time. In his guts he knew
he'd need to see what kind of man Cole was in defending his woman, just to
see if he had courage.

Sharon chose this moment to strike, leaping over to Cole's side. She pulled
his face towards hers in both hands and bent over in a Betty-Boop pose. She
brought her plush lips into a perfectly-timed and fully-committed kiss, and
with a cartoonishly simpering voice she mewed, "I love my snookums!"
She grabbed Cole's cheeks possessively, and demanded, "Now isn't that
right?"

In the iron grip of her otherwise delicate hands, Cole's blood ran icy and
yet he knew his answer. "Damn straight, Boo Boo."

Cole felt a rush, realizing he'd never felt so connected with her before.
With his arm around her waist he gave a gentle squeeze, and felt a
wonderful peace wash over him. He could feel her body heat rising as she
nestled under his arm closer.

Ricardo was visibly irritated by this. Recognizing he had to try again, he
brushed his left shoulder as if shooing away dust.
He redirected his attention to Cole, and started peppering him with
questions.
"Holy smokes, Cole! How many years has it been? You look like you could use
a shave, my friend! You been training at all, getting ready for puffy head
bird legs time again?"

Sharon cocked her head. "Puffy legs what time?"

Ricardo's foot dug into the gravel in a wider stance. He could feel his
chest expanding.

Cole regarded Ricardo's expression before answering her, directed at
Ricardo, rather than her.
"Nothing like a bit of jargon to shake off the rust before we have some
words with the rendezvous community."

Sharon stamped her foot and scoffed.
"Witchcraft. I'm not joining your cult."

Without breaking his standoff with Ricardo he spoke to Sharon.
"Love you baby."

Ricardo deflected.
"Now, I just gotta ask, Cole. I've been dying to ask it.
Why does that monkey have four arms? Aren't you Catholic?"

"He's our research assistant. I may be a Catholic, but the miracle of
science you witness before you is the brainchild of seventeen Hindu
doctors. Well, three were Sikhs, but that's a long debate. They really know
their biotech. Now be careful or that monkey will drink the oil straight
out of the drain plug and we'll just be standing here talking all day! Now
let's get moving!"

Ricardo, still feeling solid, chose to redirect the focus on the animal. He
may have been outmaneuvered now, but he was going to get a perfect strike
one way or another, and the self-justifications could come sooner or later.

"The monkey's our assistant, huh? Here, I'll put the bags up the
protuberance air load and in the trunk if you strap him in."

Cole smiled warmly at Sharon, and she couldn't help but reflect with her
own smile. He translated for her. "He means the hatch."

Ricardo blustered. "Saccharine. Alright let's get a move on!"

With some difficulty, Cole got the safety belt around at least one set of
Bitboi Leroy's shoulders, and clambered into the passenger seat.

Ricardo got into the driver's side and sent a dust cloud flying as he
pulled out. Cole put his mobile up to his own ear. Ricardo looked as though
he were about to say something, when Cole held up a finger.

"Let me make a quick call and we can catch up. Yeah, hi. Emily? Emily, how
are you feeling today? You sound a little under the weather... Oh, no
reason. I wanted to let you know I'm going away for a little while, but
I'll have something special for you when I get back. I can't say anything
else about it. You, uh..."
His voice cracked.
"Just take care of yourself, okay? I want to see you when I get back. Yeah
I'm in the car. I love you too. Bye."

Ricardo's eyebrow raised. "Emily? Your sister?"

"Yeah."

"How much does she weigh?"

"Don't even start with that." Cole chided.

"You know I like bigger girls, right?"

Cole shrugged off the jibe with a laugh. "How could I possibly forget? What
was her name, 'Sammie Sammie from Cincinnati' or was it 'Trina short for
Catrina, Trina from San Bernardin-ah?"

Ricardo surrendered. "Ah you got me. You got me. No, it was Raquelle the
Spell Caster from a Shell station in Lancaster. Alright you, you..."
He fumbled.
"We have about an hour before we get to the airport. Want to catch up?"

Cole shrugged.

Richard went on. "So now they have me shuttling supplies to the asteroid
miners every other year, and doing short jumps to orbit stations, sometimes
during meteor storms. Man, you had to be there! I was in deep yogurt.
Buckshot through my wings, and I made it back by the seat of my pants. The
skin on my teeth. The tail fell off about a thousand feet before I hit the
runway. But my bird held together. Hah hah! Man you should've seen it. I
should have retired decades ago. You liking retirement? Well, now ex-
retirement, I guess. I don't know what they told you to get you back into
the cockpit. I got the call while I was bowling a perfect game."

Cole found himself, watching the trees pass. "Uh huh."

Ricardo's smile faded.
"Are you always this cheerful?"
He thought to himself, Finally, a riposte!

Cole's bright mood began to sour.
"Could we... Could we not talk about accidents?"

Cole's eyes were shut tightly, and he chose to breathe through the rising
visions before they could fully overtake him.
With a slow inhale and a long exhale he brought his awareness back to the
present moment.
"Sorry. I don't get a lot of human interaction. Most of my teatime
visitors, for the last half decade, have been angry protesters. You ever
have a widow scream that it's all your fault? Sorry, Ricardo. It has
nothing to do with you. I just..."

Ricardo grunted, communicating nothing.
He realized how thirsty he was feeling, so he reached for his energy drink,
but it was no longer there. He looked at the empty cup holder, taking his
eyes off the road for just a few moments. But aren't those very few moments
the right moments for things to go off the map? For the mere span of two
heartbeats, Ricardo's hands left the wheel, and the vehicle swerved right
and left and right again, skittering down the dirt road. Ricardo placidly
righted himself, calmly took control of the steering wheel again, then
accurately aligned with the lines in the road again.

The ride was once more smooth, and Cole exhaled hard, and he felt like he
could really breathe again, now. He was on to Ricardo's little game.

He targeted Ricardo's face. "What are you testing me for?"

Ricardo chuckled back, with a hint of delight, "Why would I test you?"

Cole intoned, "If you wanted to, could you not answer the question,
Ricardo?"

Ricardo puzzled, "Wait, what?"

Cole asked in a warmer tone, "Don't worry about it. What were you looking
for? I can get it so you can focus on driving."

Ricardo's hands loosened up their grip on the wheel and he looked around
the cabin. "Oh, uh, My energy drink isn't there."

Cole gasped. "Your what?!"

He stole a glance to the back seat, where Bitboi was finishing the last
drops of the can.

Cole buried his face in his hands. "We have maybe five minutes."

Ricardo's brows furrowed. "Did that monkey drink my drink? You owe me one
when we get gas."

Cole gave him a haunted look. "I don't think you understand. He drank... an
energy drink."
He stared back at Bitboi, who was now making obscene gestures at him with
all limbs.

Ricardo shrugged, "So what?"
Then he noticed something in the rear-view mirror. "Hey, I think we have a
tail."

A white Escalade with tinted windows was directly behind them, and driving
entirely too closely. Suddenly it crossed the median lines and drove into
the oncoming lane, pulling up directly alongside them, then roared ahead
and swung directly in front of them. The brake lights shone red.

Cole gripped the overhead handle and braced himself.

Ricardo hit the brakes hard, shifted to a lower gear, then slammed his foot
on the accelerator. He swerved left around the Escalade and hurtled past
it, got back in the right lane, and drove faster.

Bitboi howled in the back, tore through his seat belt, and jumped around in
the back seat. His claws shredded the car cushions, and he raked the
ceiling light clean off.

Still looking entirely too calm, Ricardo jested, "Somebody doesn't like
you, Cole."

Cole's face was blanched, with perspiration forming on his forehead. "They
can wait in line with the rest. Ohhhh I'm going to be sick."

The Escalade was in the rear view again, careening towards them.

"Nah, go ahead and puke. I'm just glad this isn't my car. Alright, Jackpot.
Call the cops. I'm not stopping for these clowns."

Cole hastily located his phone and dialed. The operator picked up.
"911, please state your name and the location of your emergency."

"This is Cole Jameson. I am located at mile marker... thirty eight on
highway 180. I am being tailed by an aggressive driver who I believe means
me harm. Please send a unit."

There was the sound of typing on the other end of the line.
"I'm sorry sir. We don't have any units in that area. Can you get away from
them?"

"We're doing our best."

"Who else is with you?"

"Ricardo Corazon and a monkey."

There was a moment of silence on the line.
"Is this a prank call?"

"Madam I assure you this is no prank." Cole assured her.

"Well, we have no units in that area. Our nearest units are handling a riot
in Fresno. I wish I could help. Your report has been logged. Sorry, sir.
Good luck."

She ended the call.

Bitboi Leroy was shrieking and dismantled the back seat, then climbed over
the duffel bag in the trunk.

Cole shot a look back. "What are you doing?!" he demanded of the monkey.

Ricardo asked him, "Do you have a gun?"

Cole retorted, "This is California. What do you think?"

Ricardo sucked his teeth in disappointment. "Point taken."

The Escalade made contact with their bumper and shifted left, shoving the
car askew and off the road into the gravel beside it.
Ricardo negotiated the velocity carefully, instinctually knowing to turn
the wheel ever so slightly and accelerated again. The car bounced back onto
the asphalt, and the Escalade sped up to meet them.

Bitboi Leroy waited for just the right moment, just as the big car was
about to hit the bumper again, and smashed the rear window with a metal
fist. He leapt through the tailgate and onto the hood of the Escalade,
gripping the windshield wipers. The driver slowed down, but not in time to
keep Bitboi Leroy from shattering through the windshield. It came to a
halt.

Cole implored, "Stop the car, Ricardo! Stop the car!"

Ricardo seemed more irritated than anything. "Fine, fine."
He came to a complete stop. Cole poured himself out of the passenger seat,
opened the door, and ran towards the Escalade.

Shots rang out, and Cole winced, shielding his head with his arms. The
shrieking of a monkey drowned out the screaming of a man. More gunshots,
then silence.

Cole regained himself and scurried over to the parked car.

He didn't know he was yelling "Oh God, oh God. Bitboi! Bitboi! Are you in
there?"

Behind the steering wheel was a bloodied, unconscious man in a sport coat
and tee shirt. On the floor of the passenger side, next to an empty
hamburger bag lay his pistol, and in the passenger seat a very satisfied
Bitboi Leroy sat, sucking on the straw of the man's soda.

"Let's get out of here, buddy. But first..."

He pulled out the man's wallet and took a photo of his identification,
snagged the gun and grabbed sand at the side of the road. He unloaded and
then cocked the gun, poured the sand in and ran the slide until it no
longer moved, then dropped it back onto the car floor.

"Let's go. Let's go!"

Bitboi Leroy clambered out of the Escalade and made sure to pop the left
front tire with his claws as he went. Cole and Bitboi scuttled away and got
back in the car with Ricardo.

They sped off.

Cole reported, "I got a photo of his ID. When we get to the Council we'll
have to file a report."

Ricardo glanced back at Bitboi Leroy with gratitude. "It's a good thing we
had that monkey, now isn't it? I bet he gets all kinds of fat tail."

Cole nodded. "Best assistant of all time."

"Why did they make you his babysitter?" Ricardo asked.

Cole's eyebrows raised. "I asked for the assignment. I needed time to screw
my head back on, so I did all the paperwork for him to come live with me in
my cabin, instead of leaving him in a cold lab."

The buildings got taller as they made it into the city.

A couple of cholos in a lowrider pulled up next to them at a stoplight.
"Nice ride, ese!"

Ricardo waved at them all-too politely. "Well, thank you young man!"

They wagged their heads in total disrespect, and peeled out when the light
turned green.

Ricardo thought for a moment. "I've been thinking about it. Who else is
watching you? That driver could have been sent by someone else. It could be
somebody on the council for all we know. You aren't exactly the belle of
the ball there anymore, Cole. What's the name on the card?"

Cole examined the image he took. "Timothy Penrod. Montana driver's
license."

Ricardo mused, "Doesn't ring a bell. Wait. Say... Wasn't Toby Walters
married to a Penrod gal?"

Cole's countenance dropped. "Yes. Corporal Tobias Walters was married to
Angelique Penrod-Walters. Do you think it was her brother or something?"

Ricardo enjoined, "It's all just very convenient timing if you ask me.
Somebody must have let him know you'd be on the road. They say the
Federation Council is always watching, but couldn't someone else be, too?"

Cole leaned his seat back to make room, then crawled over to inspect Bitboi
Leroy for wounds. "There's blood all over you buddy. Are you hurt?"
There was blood on him, but after a thorough look-over, Cole determined
that at least it wasn't his own.
"We just left a crime scene, Ricardo. I'm pretty sure we just committed a
felony."

Ricardo quipped, "I'd say we neutralized a threat. Chancellor McCorbage
Vayes is going to blow a gasket when he hears about this. I can't wait to
tell him!"




CHAPTER 4



Ricardo made it to the airport without further incident. Smoke rose from
several burnt-out buildings along the way, and police barricades blocked
several streets.

Ricardo murmured, "Just another day in the late great golden state."

Cole asked, "Do you think we'll have trouble getting the monkey through the
terminal?"

"Nah, it's all set up. We'll get waived through. It's a private flight."

At the terminal a sharp-looking corporal held up a placard, on which "Nova"
was handwritten precisely in permanent marker ink.

Cole came up to shake his hand. "You our contact?"

"Mr. Nova, Mr. Corazon. Come with me. Oh gosh. Why is there blood on that
monkey?"

"He just saved us from a carjacker."

The corporal gave them a sly look.
"Well, that's California for you. Bathroom's this way."

After washing Bitboi in a sink, the trio hurried along with the monkey
through several well-lit corridors, far away from the prying eyes of
crowds. They moved with brisk, long strides towards an empty flight
terminal, then on to a ramp that descended to the ground.

In the bright afternoon light the tarmac expanded left and right, and dead
ahead a C-130 Hercules was already warming up its engines.

The wind whipped around them as they approached the open tail gate.

Cole elbowed Ricardo in the ribs. "Private flight, huh?"

Ricardo laughed hard.

Aboard the plane, the seating left something to be desired. The corporal
helped Cole strap Bitboi Leroy into the red webbed seats before getting the
others situated.

The corporal commented, "You might want to sedate the monkey."

Cole's hand descended into his jacket, and emerged with a bottle of
nighttime sleeping medicine. "He'll drink this."

Bitboi reached out for the bottle and eagerly polished off the blue swill.

Before long, the plane ascended into the wind with a short takeoff, then
tilted as it wheeled about southeast.

Ricardo whipped out a book.

"What do you have there?" Cole asked.

"101 Ways to Improve Your Bowling Game. Want to read it?"

"Thanks, I'll pass."

"Suit yourself." Ricardo shrugged, and ignored the deafening noise that
filled the air throughout the big metal fuselage.

The plane shuddered in the wind.

Cole shouted over the ruckus of the engines. "I'm going to grab some shut-
eye. It might be the last chance in a few days."

Cole took the opportunity to close his eyes, though the turbulence made
sleeping difficult. Still, he drifted off into a quiet, dreamless sleep.

The sounds of the landing gear descending woke him. Bitboi remained asleep
in his chair, held in place by multiple belts through his many armpits,
drooling down his chest.

Across the aisle, Ricardo was still attentively reading.

Cole wiped the muck from his eyes and mumbled, "How long was I out?"

Ricardo hadn't heard him so he repeated his question more loudly.

Ricardo set the book aside and shouted, "It's been a few hours."

The plane's wheels bounced on the runway, then gripped the pavement. The
sudden deceleration pressed Cole sideways in his chair, while Ricardo
calmly braced himself.

Bitboi was jarred awake, and, not recognizing his surroundings, screeched
and howled, thrashing around in his chair.

The corporal's hand rested firmly on his sidearm. "You'd better get that
monkey under control, Mr. Nova!"

Cole put up an appeasing hand. "Relax! He'll calm down once the plane has
stopped."

The corporal insisted, "Get more sedative."

"There isn't any left. But that's a valuable asset, Corporal. Just think
about it before you get too trigger happy."

He let the words sink in, and the young Marine gradually eased his hand
away from his weapon.

With the C-130 Hercules at a full stop, Cole unstrapped Bitboi Leroy, who
clung to him as a child clings to its mother. He grabbed his duffel while
the corporal opened the tail gate.

Ricardo stowed his book in his own suitcase, and strolled alongside Cole
down the ramp. The corporal scowled at the monkey, but chose not to say
anything else.

On the tarmac a black limo, glinting with a recent polish, was already
waiting for them. Beside it stood a limo driver, a tall string bean of a
man, no older than 25, sporting a kangol cap and shades. He was holding a
sign that read, "COLE NOVA."

As the trio approached him, Ricardo grumbled, "Where's my sign?"




CHAPTER 5



Cole marveled at the renovations of the command center. "My God! So much
has changed!"

An attendant had a cart ready at the curbside, and the limo driver hoisted
their bags onto it. Cole gripped one of the handles and dragged it with
Bitboi Leroy clinging to his back like a living backpack.

Armed guards escorted Cole and Ricardo through wide, mirrored doors that
reflected the setting sun.

Ricardo cracked a smile. "A lot has changed since you took a sabbatical,
bud. More than just the building."

Bitboi Leroy cooed at every shiny object he spotted. Inside the building,
far to the left and right of Cole and Ricardo, massive concrete pillars
ascended several floors high to support a high arched ceiling. Industrial
lights hung on long cables above.

At the end of the corridor stood four individuals. At the head of them
loomed an elderly man wearing a tan general's uniform and hat, with a huge
ring on each of his gnarled but exposed and welcoming hands.

In a rich voice he boomed, "Mr. Corazon, let's see what the cat dragged in.
By Jove, if it isn't Cole Nova himself!"

Cole breathed slowly through his nostrils, approaching with caution while
trying his best to seem confident. "And if it isn't Federation Chancellor
Peter McCorbage Vayes. I received your letter."

Ricardo raced ahead and shook the Chancellor's hand first. The Chancellor
nodded to him politely and returned his attention to Cole Nova, gripping
his hand like a vise.

Cole wondered if his fingers would be broken.

Chancellor Vayes pulled him close as if to share a secret, but spoke just
as loudly as before.
"Now what was that Cole Jameson business? With a last name like 'Nova' I
don't think I'd be messing about with the paperwork for a legal name
change, but that's just me."
He laughed raucously, but no one else joined in his amusement. Cole managed
to force a tittering chuckle out to placate the man.

Vayes let him go. "Now, let's get you cleaned up and presentable. You might
want to do some reading tonight, but get some rest. Real training begins at
4:30 AM tomorrow morning, sharpish. Understood?"

To the right of Chancellor Vayes another man looked Cole in the eyes,
recognizing his discomfort, and shrugged. He had placed his hands in his
jean pockets, but he extended a tepid greeting.
"Vance Black. Operations. Good to meet you."

Cole observed the man's crisp, white polo with a Federal Council Command
logo embroidered on the left chest. He had a short sprig of silver hair,
wire frame glasses. Cole noticed that he wore casual white sneakers.

Behind Vance stood a man in a tan sport coat and gray slacks with brown
oxfords, wearing a short black beard and a comb-over. His eyelids drooped
over dark bags as if he hadn't slept in days. He reached out to shake both
Cole's and Ricardo's hands vigorously, stating, "I'm Sigismundo Gomez, head
of the engineering team. Looking forward to supporting your mission,
gentlemen. And, uh, and the monkey. Supporting you all."

His stumbling approach and comment on the monkey elicited polite laughter
from most present.

Yet beside Sigismundo, a woman in a professional business suit rested with
her arms akimbo. She had a narrow, aquiline nose and harsh eyes, narrow
lips and a brunette reverse bob-cut that framed her disapproving
expression.

She did nothing to hide her feelings about Cole either.

She tapped the shoulder of Chancellor Vayes and sullenly asked him, "This?
This is your ace in the hole? How are we going to spin this? The man who
saves humanity is a hobo with a monkey on his back?"

Chancellor Vayes snapped his fingers at her. "We can discuss it in detail
later, Ms. Peabody. But to answer your question, yes he is, along with Mr.
Corazon and an indispensable, extremely expensive monkey."

Chancellor Vayes continued, not quite yet satisfied that he'd made his
point. "Now, in spite of his current appearance Cole Nova has a track
record  over two billion miles long and twice as wide. And before you
question me or my decisions again, Ricardo Corazon has over a hundred
successful missions under his belt. Missions that were of extreme risk to
both life and limb and of crucial importance to this governing body. I will
not, Ms. Peabody, divulge any further details to you because you lack the
clearance for it. Am I understood, Ms. Peabody?"

His words sizzled in the air, and Peabody averted her gaze.

Ricardo was beaming with pride.

Peabody rallied. With a deep, slow inhale, she offered a stark response.
"I would urge the Chancellor to consider that numerous legislative bodies
still regulate the funding and allocation of human resources to the
Federation's various operations, and to consider reasonable cause for
concern regarding the quality of personnel in manning a mission that will
cost taxpayers far more than that monkey could in a million lifetimes. Do I
not express myself clearly, Chancellor Vayes?"

Federation Chancellor Peter McCorbage Vayes mentally weighed her for a
moment, touched his tongue to his teeth, and changed the subject. In
resignation he concluded, "Well, gentlemen, you can see we have a
professional team of real experts here, and we wouldn't want to let them
down, now would we?"

Cole gulped, and Ricardo took one step back, with a concerned expression
smeared across his face.

Leaving the others behind, Chancellor Peter McCorbage Vayes ushered Cole
and Ricardo through a set of doors, past a spacious lobby filled with
receptionists at desks, and through another set of doors, down a
fluorescent-lit institutional hallway of linoleum with painted brick walls,
interspersed by what looked like classroom doors at intervals.

Ricardo smirked, "Kind of like high school all over again, isn't it?"

Cole could feel his eyelids squeezing themselves shut, trying not to
chuckle along. He peered into one of the rooms, and noticed a server array
practically dripping with wires.

Vayes glanced back at them. "Did you bring enough gum for the whole class,
then? Alright, ladies, look sharp. Well, uh, gentlemen. Forget that I said
that bit about ladies or the feminists will have my head. Things have
changed, including where we set you up. With all the riots, security has
had to tighten, and we don't have the luxury of setting you up in fancy
hotels anymore. Here's your dorm. Dinner is at 18:00 in the cafeteria
further down the hall. That gives you 40 minutes to stow your bags and
shave. And do please change the monkey's diaper. Thank you gentlemen.
Looking forward to hearing about your training tomorrow."

With a grim nod, he abruptly turned about and left them to their own
devices, then immediately doubled back for a last word.
"Oh, and look for the room that says "Training" on the door after dinner,
when you have a chance to go over essential reading."
He again turned about sharply, and made his exit.

Cole and Ricardo scoped out their dorm room. Two twin sized beds sat low
beside white painted brick walls. On each, a jumpsuit with the Federation
insignia lay folded on each one, along with a key card on a lanyard.

The lights overhead buzzed with fluorescent light.

Ricardo stowed his bag and laid down for a nap.

Cole took Bitboi Leroy to the bathroom and washed him up. The monkey
instantly grabbed the shampoo bottle and strove to wrench the cap open to
drink it. Cole snagged it away from him, chiding Bitboi.
"Not today, you don't!"

Bitboi hooted in dismay, yet the shower head provided ample water to drink
and spit and spin in, so that was good enough for him.

Once Cole had managed to extract the enthusiastic beast from the bathtub,
he bundled up the little fellow in towels and set him on the bathroom floor
to dry off. Then he hopped in the shower for himself and enjoyed white
noise of the blistering hot water in silence. Blessed silence.

After shaving he tried on his jumpsuit. It fit heavy around the shoulders.
The buckle clasp snugged up the built in belt around the torso. Cole
noticed his own familiar face in the mirror's reflection. He noticed
wrinkles around his eyes, and remembered the same face in a similar suit so
many years before.

He held the towel to his face to stifle hot, salty tears that crept down
his cheeks.

Bitboi Leroy had found his way out of his puffy towel cocoon and hugged
Cole's leg. Cole couldn't help but lift him up and hug him tightly.
"You and me, buddy. We're going to save the world. We're going to save
Emily."

Bitboi chirped and whistled, then pointed with three hands to be lowered.

It was 17:30, and Ricardo was snoring logs. Bitboi shook him gently, and
Ricardo stirred, half-awake.
"I don't want to work today, Lorena. Lemme kiss that big beautiful belly of
yours. Wha-?"

He gradually became aware of his surroundings and opened his eyes. There
was no Lorena; just a monkey with four arms making obscene gestures at him,
who was mock-kissing the air.

Cole tossed Ricardo a jumpsuit.
"Suit up, buckaroo. Dinner time."




CHAPTER 6



Further down the hall, Ricardo and Cole entered a room lined with by white
cabinets with aluminum trim. An woman of Asian descent approached them. She
wore a red button-up blouse and black skirt. She gestured for them to come
closer.

"Mr. Nova, Mr. Corazon, and hi! Who's this?"

She stretched out her hands to let Bitboi Leroy sniff her, and he eagerly
clambered over Cole's shoulder and snuggled into her arms.

Cole began to answer, but Ricardo interrupted him. "That's Bitboi Leroy. He
has six limbs."

"I can see that. He's so cute I could gobble him up. I want to smush that
little face of his. So cute."

Still holding Bitboi like an infant, she shook each of their hands. "Hi,
I'm April Tran. I'm your nutrition coordinator. We have a food pantry
system, just take what you like from each of the bins. This is exactly the
kind of food you'll be eating up there, so we want you to get used to the
packaging and delivery."

Ricardo estimated her. "It never tastes the same up there. I usually just
go for texture. Come on, Cole!"

He hastened over to the bins eagerly and snatched several pouches.

Cole followed him, and pored over the packs. "These were in different
packaging when I was flying."

"Go for the corn stuffing. You can't go wrong with the corn stuffing. I'm
getting the beans and tortillas. You never know what you like here that
will taste alright up there. The calorie bars are awesome if you don't care
about flavor."

"Ricardo, I might have ruined my taste buds with whiskey. I'll take
whatever they have."

"Well you're not drinking now, and your sense of taste might come back.
Here, try one of these."
Ricardo tossed him an opaque gray packet labeled "Apple Cinnamon".

Ricardo playfully mused, "Variety is the spice of life, Cole. The spice of
life."

Cole glanced around the cafeteria. Engineers lined up at tables, scarfing
down salisbury steaks and potatos, Hawaiian rolls, and other hearty foods.

Cole brought extra packs for Bitboi back to April and inquired, "So only
the astronauts get the real grub?"

She nodded and returned Bitboi to him. "If you ever need a monkey-sitter,
when you get back, you give me a call."
She looked a little too long, smiled at him a little too long, and Cole
felt his heart warming.

"I have a girlfriend, you know."

"Well, let me know if that changes, Mr. Nova." She smiled again at him, and
wandered off.

Ricardo didn't miss a beat, and chimed in. "Not enough meat on the bones of
that hen."

Cole laughed. "You're insufferable, Ricardo. You know that?"

They shared a laugh, and sat down to tear through their meal packs.

While they snacked, one of the engineers slumped over his meal. Another one
stood up abruptly and ran to his aid. "He's dead!" he exclaimed.

Another spat his food out and shouted, "Not another one! Get an ambulance!
Get a medic!"

Another rushed over to a phone on the wall. "Yes, we have a situation. Same
as last week. Yes. Bring the coroner."

Cole and Ricardo left their seats to go see what was happening. Ricardo
implored of anyone, "Gravity sickness?"

Cole observed the haggard faces around him. Each face carried the weight of
long sleepless nights and overwork, yet there was something more here.

"How many of you have it?" he demanded of them all.

Sigismundo Gomez was among them, and he arose to speak.

"All of us. All of us have it, Mr. Nova."

Cole gritted his teeth.

"Then there's no time to lose, is there?"

Sigismundo shook his head gravely.

Cole and Ricardo regarded one another and nodded, truly feeling the
importance of why they were here.

Cole slowly asked Sigismundo, "Is the training center open tonight?"

Bitboi Leroy grabbed as many food packs as he could from the table before
Cole snatched him up. Cole and Ricardo hustled to one of the doors that
read, "TRAINING", and opened it with their key cards.

A bay of computers sat before them, and they each logged in on separate
ones. The interfaces seemed familiar enough when compared to the systems
they'd used in the past.

Cole and Ricardo studied late into the night on their ship's features and
controls. The technology looked totally alien to him.

Cole pointed to a diagram of sonic tubes. "What are these? What the hell is
the eleventh harmonic? What do these do?"

"No clue." Ricardo mumbled.

"And what are these? Microwave Electromagnetic Drive? Microwave Plasma
Thrusters? What happened to hydrogen peroxide and basic chemistry?"

"Won't get us there fast enough I guess. Hey, look at this harvesting
scoop. We'll be doing a fly-through, by the looks of it."

The door cracked open. Sigismundo poked his head through. "Gentlemen, I
hope I'm not disturbing your studies."

Cole rebutted, "Not at all!"

He checked the clock, which read 1:41 AM.

Sigismundo seemed hesitant. "Good, good. I, uh, I wanted to see if you have
any questions."

Ricardo grumbled, "Look, I don't want to seem stupid, you know? I know how
to bowl a perfect game, I know how to land a broken shuttle safely in
Detroit, and for deep philosophy I even take the time to read Calvin and
Hobbes. But this? Give it to me straight, doc. Microwave Plasma Drive?"

Sigismundo lit up. "Ah, the microwave plasma drive. It's kind of like a jet
engine and a microwave oven had a baby. It makes plasma for thrust."

Ricardo repositioned himself.
"What, using a waveguide on low-temperature plasma to excite the particles
into a higher state of ionization, producing heat and thrust?"

Sigismundo was taken aback. "I thought you said you couldn't understand the
technology."

Ricardo reclined in his chair smugly. "I never said that. Heh heh. Okay,
but seriously. I don't understand the Microwave Electromagnetic Drive. Want
to clear that up for me?"

Sigismundo sorted himself out, tightened his neck tie and pulled over a
chair to sit comfortably in between Ricardo and Cole.

"The Microwave Electromagnetic Drive works through spatial pressure
differentials. One disk is much larger than the other, and the interior
reflects the microwaves back and forth. Due to the difference in photon
pressure per square inch, we hypothesize that it produces a localized
pressure on the quantum field, sort of within its own context. It uses
electricity rather than lossy rocket fuel, so you'll be using that one in
conjunction with piezoelectric solar sails for the majority of your
journey. It will save enough fuel for your return trip, when the sails will
be retracted. That way you're not being pushed too hard by the solar
winds."

Cole commented, "That is just amazing. It reminds me of something my old
history teacher once taught us. For over six thousand years humans have
used sailing ships. In a way, we'll be no different from that first
overconfident primitive that looked across the sea and decided it would
take too long to swim it."

Sigismundo nodded. "Some things never change, Mr. Nova. The human spirit is
intrepid through and through. People tend to also forget about all the
sailing ships humanity made well before the ice age, but that can be
obscure data. They might even forget how old the pyramids really are, or
just how many times our species has risen from the ashes of calamity,
natural or otherwise."

Ricardo gave him a sideways glance. "What are you, an ancient alien
conspiracy theorist?"

Sigismundo rolled his eyes. "I don't claim to believe or know anything.
Maybe, think of it this way. My favorite professor had three PhD's, and
told me that the key was to forget everything he thought he knew to be
true, in order to solve new problems in new contexts."

Ricardo grunted his disapproval.

Cole asked, "Forget everything I know? With all due respect, Mr. Gomez, if
I did that I wouldn't know how to fly a ship, and then I couldn't do this
mission."

Sigismundo offered him a warm, appeasing smile. "Imagine for a moment with
me. What if the voices of the past could do nothing more than to serve as
reminders to be presently aware of your surroundings right now?"

His words seemed to twist Ricardo's mind into a pretzel, so he turned his
attention to Cole.
"Let's take you as an example, Mr. Nova. Even with all your knowledge of
space flight, why did you choose not to fly for so long? What would you
have done differently if it were your choice? And really, whose choice is
it, anyway?"

Cole gasped, suddenly aware of how long he had avoided flying, feeling
strong emotions well up from deep in his belly. "I..." he stammered.

Ricardo stepped in. "What are you even talking about?"

Sigismundo turned to him. "And what is it about competition that you enjoy?
When is it healthy, and when are you leaving a legacy worth remembering?
Sooner or later you may realize how it is impacting you and how you live,
and that determines how you'll be remembered. You both saw Darius Medina
die today at the dinner table. He had no family, and few friends. And yet
he helped many of these systems and technologies that will benefit humanity
after he dies. So, at what point do you know what legacy you truly wish to
leave, Mr. Corazon?"

Cole and Ricardo felt stunned by the machine gun list of questions.

Sigismundo bowed to them graciously, and said, "Must be going."

Without another word, he left and gently closed the door.


CHAPTER 7

Ricardo fumbled to silence the pesky alarm and blearily spied the time.
5:30 AM. In a groggy voice he chimed, "Time to play, gentlemen!"

With the click of a switch, the overhead fluorescent bulb blinded Cole, who
rubbed his eyes before setting his feet on the unpadded carpet. He opened
Bitboi's cage and gently shook the blanket shrouding the macaque. With a
quiet, high-pitched grunt, four arms slowly emerged from the folds in it,
each delivering a universal sign of displeasure through a single raised
digit on each hand.

"I know it's early, buddy."

He scooped up Bitboi in spite of sluggish protests and readied both the
monkey and himself for the day.

When he opened the dormitory door, there was already a golf cart waiting,
with Vance Black behind the driver's seat. Today he had a button-down long-
sleeved blue shirt, white cargo shorts, and flip flops.

"You space cowboys ready for a rodeo?"

Ricardo got in the passenger seat, leaving room for Cole and Bitboi Leroy
in the back seats. He greeted Vance with an iron handshake.
"Good morning, Mr. Vance. Say, are those sandals standard issue?"

Vance Black yawned. "Being a private contractor has its benefits."

Cole chimed in, "Yeah! This isn't exactly a public sector operation, Mr.
Corazon."

Ricardo snorted, but maintained appearing amused. "McCorbage Vayes would
have thrown us in the brig if we'd dressed like that."

Vance gave a mirthless grimace. "There's a lot less decorum and a lot more
focus on functionality, and you're welcome. I don't care if you fly up
there in a homemade plastic wrap suit, as long as you get the job done, and
do it well."

The cart turned down hallways, and the deeper into the complex that it
moved, there were none of the fancy columns nor vaulted ceilings that the
front building had boasted. White-painted brick walls and linoleum ended at
automatic doors, leading out onto a cement bridge between what Cole could
now clearly determine were brutalist, cement buildings. Long, unadorned
surfaces jutted out from each other with unimaginative rectangular
regularity.

Cole asked, "Are we heading to training?"

Vance nodded. "On a budget. Yes sir."

Ricardo went cock-eyed. "What's 'on a budget' supposed to mean?"

Vance zipped tightly in a hasty 90 degree slide around another gangway
corner. He slowed down as they passed an engineer, all waving hello, and
again accelerated along the labyrinthine cement and steel path. Iron and
concrete pillars held up the concrete trail as it ascended and descended,
with a smattering of elevators on the inner rim of a vast courtyard. Cole
pointed below and shouted over the whirring of the electric wheels. "Rick!
Look at the agricultural rows. That whole area used to be decorative office
plants."

Ricardo relaxed his shoulders against the backrest as best as he could, and
quickly bracing himself as the cart swung around the corners of the path.
"It's certainly a better use of the area."

Cole and Bitboi Leroy's ears were caught by the electric sound of crop
dusters, janitors in slow fan-wing backpacks floating over the fields while
spraying chemicals. Spider-legged robots the size of hounds picked their
way through rows of strawberries in dutiful stride.

Vance gesticulated at the road and pillars, and opined, "These pathways are
wide enough for almost two carts to pass, but half the time there's no side
rail, there's no median line, and the corners need about 25% more margin to
handle driver errors. Hang on, we're almost there!"

Bitboi Leroy began to howl at the twists and turns of the ride, and
attempted to clamber over Ricardo's shoulder. Ricardo, shrieked in a
childishly high pitch, then broke into a forced tough-guy chuckle.
"Get off me you damn dirty ape!"

Cole couldn't stop laughing, and even Vance allowed himself to have a
genuine chuckle at the rowdiness.

"Get off me, you big gorilla!" Ricardo spat in a mix of joy and outrage.

Cole jokingly asked him, "Didn't you ever watch the Discovery Channel?"

Bitboi Leroy disentangled himself from Ricardo's seat belt and, in sheer
disappointment, buckled himself up, folded all of his arms and huffed,
refusing to look at anyone else in the golf cart.

Presently Vance arrived at a wide garage. The wall ahead of them split left
and right, its wide metal gates retracting into tidy bays. The space opened
up like a grand cathedral. Within the vast vaulted ceilings many shapes
came into Cole's focus. Most of the ground consisted of a peculiarly wide
and deep swimming pool. In the middle of this a geometric structure jutted
out of the water. Its simple geodesic hemisphere modules interlinked to
each other through a cube-like set of tubular tunnels. Several spheres and
boxes encrusted the hull. Around the edge of the modules, set a few feet
over the water, a pier system arrayed along every side, with a narrow
footbridge between the shore and its deck.

Cole asked, "What are we putting on a space station today?"

"That's not exactly a space station, but it is a replica of something we'll
eventually be putting up there."

"On Saturn?"

With a glint of teeth, Vance Black gossiped to them quietly. "Oh ho ho. Not
yet. What's going to Saturn is so much stranger than that. Come on!"

With the golf cart parked, Vance emerged from the driver's seat and
motioned for the others to follow him. Two obese armed guards attended the
sides of an identification device atop an elongated cube. On the surface,
the outline of a palm on a blue background indicated what to do, so they
each placed their hands on the surface.

When Vance placed his hand on the screen, curious dots formed around and
within its reflection of his hand. When he removed his hand from the
interface, his face and name showed up on the screen in a green background
with white text, and the guards ushered him forward.
One said, "Good morning, sir."

Vance nodded back to him, "Morning, Harris. Big day."

The screen shone green for Ricardo. He peered back and quipped, "Clearly
not designed by engineers, for engineers."

Cole's hand also cleanly registered, and he started to think about what
Vance's 'big day' would entail, but his thoughts were interrupted by an
alarm blaring from nearby speakers embedded in the walls.

Bitboi Leroy's attempts at touching the screen caused it to flash red, no
matter which metal-tipped hand he placed on it. His attempts became more
and more frantic.

One of the guards came forward with an upheld hand, and Cole's heart sank.
The guard's blank expression told Cole nothing, but with a simple motion,
the guard removed a card from a lanyard around his neck and placed it on
the screen. The device flashed green. The guard muttered, "Don't worry,
fellas. No mistaking that monkey for anyone else. Alright, head through."

Cole picked up Bitboi and headed towards the big metal gate past the
guards. Vance was waiting, tapping his foot.

The solid steel bulkhead door hissed and opened sideways.

Ricardo whistled. "I'm impressed! No expense spared on the renovations,
that's for sure!"

The gate opened to a hallway with another identical metal bulkhead on the
other side. Once they were all inside, the one behind sealed shut, and the
one ahead rumbled open. Vance led the trio into a vast aircraft hangar. In
here the thrum of fans and machinery filled the air with noises. In the
center of the room an unusual object caught Cole's attention. A nine foot
concentric circular machine atop a platform spun in all directions, with
rings rotating inside of larger rings, with a jarring distortion of light
rippling around a dark object. To Cole it looked like an old medical
device. He wondered aloud,
"Is this magnetic containment?"

The thing floating in the middle reflected absolutely no light at all.
Above the rings, an array of long metal tubes of different diameters set
hung in a hemispherical girder. They were all pointing at the dark rock,
and the arrangement reminded Cole of a church organ. He could see that they
were all capped by black boxes with wires ascending to a point at which all
the wires bundled together atop a looming hoist.

Further out in the room, in the shadows cast by the machine's brilliant
whirling lights, Cole couldn't count the number of worktables shrouded in
contraptions and sensors, canisters and coils. He felt baffled by the sheer
quantity of tubes, which absolutely festooned the place.
Monitors displayed sine waves and beeped, reminding Cole of an operating
room, and the thought sent shivers down his spine.

At a bay of computer screens a lone engineer sat blithely at a control
panel, sipping coffee between taking bites of a hoagie while another
technician monitored an adjacent setup. There, weirdly hexagonal containers
formed the bases of six peculiar spinning aluminum spheres on spindles atop
copper coil stacks, mirrored by an identical array on the opposite side of
the rotating rings. Still, his attention was drawn back to the black
object.

Bitboi's eyes gleamed, fixated on the floating stone, and he pointed to it
with two arms while clinging to Cole.

Vance pointed at it with his whole arm. "Do you remember this, Mr. Nova?"

Ricardo subtly elbowed Cole in the ribs and leaned in for a whisper,
"Put that on a ring and she'll say yes!"

Cole shrugged off the elbowing, even though it actually hurt quite a bit,
and forced a laugh. "You know what? I just might!"

Vance shouted, "What's that?"

Cole returned his focus to Vance, and had to raise his voice to be heard
over the ruckus.
"Yes, Mr. Black. How could I possibly forget?"

Vance crept closer to Cole and Ricardo.
"What you're about to hear is top secret, so, uh, ears only. Am I clear?"

"What you see before you is an extraction device. Now I don't mean to turn
into Shakespeare on you, but these are a little complicated. Those spheres
over there use piezoelectrics and acoustics to propagate a field through an
electrified shell. Long story short, it creates gravity waves."

Without withdrawing his conspiratorial hunch, he motioned with one arm to
the spinning orbs meters away.

"These are the eleventh harmonic resonators for the whirligig over there,"
he said as he indicated the astronomically large, rotating wheels.
"They make it efficient, kind of like sonic enzymes if you think about it
that way."

Ricardo whistled in awe.

Vance continued, "Just like a digital camera, we made gravity wave emitters
in a grid, like pixels for polarization. Through that, we keep that mineral
sample intact. We kept it in the same gas it was brought in with, but that
didn't keep it from evaporating. Saturn has some unexpected fields we're
just now learning how to interface with, but I like to give credit where
credit's due. Leave it to Sigismundo to solve the puzzle."

Cole exclaimed, "We met him last night!"

Ricardo observed, "What a strange fellow."

Vance gave Ricardo a cautious look.
"We owe the gravity wave emitter development to Gomez, and he says he owes
it to the inventor Salvatore Pais, the new Nikola of our day. We stand on
the shoulders of giants, gentlemen. Giants, and just in the nick of time."

Ricardo nodded hard. Cole nodded harder, thinking of his sister.

Vance continued, slowly moseying around the gyrating circles.
"We didn't know it at the time, but we discovered that it harbored a very
intriguing secret: it alleviates symptoms of gravitosis. Just you marinate
on that one, for a moment."

Cole already knew what this would mean for himself. He was going to save
his sister. He observed, "It looks like it's working for you."

Vance brightened. "Astute, Mr. Nova. As a matter of fact, you're looking at
the first accidental case study on Earth. Me!"

Cole and Ricardo took in what they'd just heard.
Ricardo burst out, "It cures it?"

Vance held up a hand in admonishment.
"Yes, but it turns out that I'm not the first case of effectiveness. That
honor belongs to you, Cole Nova."

Cole proffered, "Huh. I'd figured it was the cocktail of drugs the docs
jammed into me that kept me free from it."

Vance shook his head grimly. "An easy thing to confuse it with, I'm sure.
No, my friend, it was your proximity to the sample, your exposure to it. At
least that's the best guess our experts have come up with."

Ricardo asked, "Why not make this publicly available?"

"We only have the one sample left. Our scientists were too hasty in their
eagerness to reap the rewards of the Dark Matter once they understood what
it could do. Most of the sample was lost."

Ricardo inquired, "Where are those scientists now?"

Vance cast his gaze at the floor. In a gloomy tone he shared, "Too much of
a good thing. There are unusual and sometimes terminal effects from
overexposure. I got lucky."

Cole tried to encourage him. "I brought the sample back to Earth, so I have
to share some of the blame for that. I need to reach out to their
families."

Vance jolted upright and scoffed, "To what end? Reopen wounds that might
have already healed? They knew what they were signing up for. Do you really
need to make a helpful menace out of yourself?"

Cole choked on what he wanted to say next.

Vance rubbed his stomach in consideration, and scratched his head.
"I apologize sincerely if I overstepped there, Mr. Nova. We haven't exactly
gone through Viet Nam together, now have we?

Cole took account of himself, and offered "I'm sorry, Mr. Black."

Vance cracked up into laughter and gave Cole a very gentle punch on the
arm. "I'll never forgive you! Never!"

Cole felt the ice break beneath them. "This is going to be fun, isn't it?"

Vance looked each man in the eye and stated, "As far we can make it."

Ricardo asked with anxious curiosity, "How did they break through the
sample? Lasers? Plasma?"

Vance said, "If you didn't need to know this I couldn't tell you, but now
we're all in the club, aren't we? Okay so we used focused gravity impellers
to break through the sample. The anti-gravity mineral has a kind of
critical mass, and once it is broken apart it doesn't go back together.
It's the most useful if we keep it intact. It lasts a lot longer that way,
but we need more and more of this if we're going to offer it to the public.
This piece is the largest remaining chunk, and it's one of the last ones we
have. Without gravity impeller containment, the samples gradually
evaporate, making the cure scarcer and scarcer. We need more."

Ricardo asked, "Why not make it available to the engineers? We saw one drop
dead last night."

Vance frowned. "Not all the engineers have clearance to be close to it.
Almost none of them know about it, and those who know are sworn to secrecy
with the highest clearances. We are not yet authorized to release this to
them. Say nothing to anyone outside this room. Am I clear?"

Cole and Ricardo reluctantly responded, "Yes sir!"

With their compliance, Vance went on.
"Good. Our analysts have identified a few likely spots for you to harvest
the Dark Matter, and we'll go over the maps tomorrow. You just wouldn't
believe the things our guys imagined up to locate them."
He leaned in between both men and whispered,
"Think of it this way. That little black rock you found while sampling the
liquid surface was just a guppy."

Cole gulped. "A guppy? Like a fish?"

Ricardo asked, "Are we going fishing, then?"

Vance's grim rictus widened. "Ever read Moby Dick?"




CHAPTER 8



Sharon sat uneasily on the train's chairs. Old gum and unidentifiable
stains covered the steel seats. She frowned at the thought that she somehow
missed the stained old cushioned seats.

Her nose wrinkled in disgust. "If it's going to be stained, it might as
well be comfortable."

Opposite her seat an elderly couple sat next to grocery bags. The old man
wore a derby hat and checkerboard green vest. The lady wore a scarf around
her head, and Sharon wondered if they might not be from a Balkan state.

At a stop, the doors slid aside and a single passenger walked in. Sharon
noticed the man when he came through the door. His slender frame seemed to
be doing its skeletal best to fill in the padded shoulders of a black
sportcoat. His white dress shirt was tucked into pants with a buckle a half
inch off center. The bulge under his armpit belied the firearm he poorly
hid under his coat.

Even though the cabin was mostly deserted, he opted to sit down beside her
just as the train lurched into motion, subtly tossing the passengers.

The suited man pulled out a newspaper and began to read it upside-down, as
if she wouldn't notice.

She took the opportunity to glare at him, then stood up, grasped her purse,
and made her way across the swaying galley.

He got up with a flustered sigh, and walked slowly towards her. His left
hand was held out low and exposed, as if in a peace offering.
"You don't recognize me, do you?"

Sharon did not, in fact, recognize the man.
"No." she stated flatly. Her collar itched, and she could feel the heat of
her irritation building up.

"You're hard to track down, Sharon Teez." he said.

She noticed his gelled comb-over, his freshly-shaven face. He couldn't be
more than twenty five, she thought.

She brightened, adding a saccharine sweetness to her voice. "Would you be
opposed to telling me your name, stranger?"

"I, uh. Greenbaum." he stammered.

Her tone turned icy. "Who sent you, Greenbaum?"

"I'm afraid I can't disclose that information. I-"

She cut him off. With serrated sarcasm she retorted, "Then I guess we're
done talking right now. Aren't we, 'I, uh, Greenbaum'?"

He huffed. "Miss, I am to bring you to the Federal Council immediately."

He drew out his badge.
It read RYAN GREENBAUM, FEDERAL COUNCIL POLICE.

She folded her arms in dismay. "Am I under arrest?"

"Not exactly. Miss, I-"

It was time to use her stunning irises to their best effect. Just as she
had practiced in the mirror a thousand times, she stated her question as if
it were an answer, "Then am I free to go."

Greenbaum pursed his lips. "By the authority invested in me by the Federal
Council, I am taking you into protective custody."

Sharon let her shoulders slump. "Can I stop by my place and get my things?"
She anticipated his answer precisely.

Greenbaum noted, "A team has already gathered your possessions."

She proceeded, "Are you going to force me to go if I say no?"

"Technically, yes."

Her mental knife was getting close to making her point.
"What would John Adams say?"

"Well, he's not here right now and I am. I have my orders from the top.
Again, you're not under arrest, but the Federal Council does require your
cooperation."

"Fine. I'll go, but no cuffs."
She held out her wrists as if to suggest that he should cuff her, and the
incongruity of it threw him off for a moment.

With her arms dropping down by her sides, she jested, "Oh, Greenbaum, when
will you set yourself free? Bah. At what point do we stop?"

As the train doors opened, the platform looked empty. Sharon stepped off
the train with Greenbaum in tow. They headed towards the stairs down. The
parking lot lay ahead.

Greenbaum commented, "You know, we met before at a symposium. Do you
remember?"

Sharon glanced at him sideways. "Naw. Really?"

"Yes," he wagged a finger at her as he walked. "Now, should I call you
'Sharon Teez' or should I call you "Dr. Teez?"

Sharon felt her guts turn, but she held a strong front. With a coy smile
she brushed her hair out of her eyes. "You can call me Sharon."

Greenbaum made eye contact with her. "I suppose we were both pretending to
be doctors that day. I'm an investigator, Sharon. It must be nice to have
so many medical contacts for your client base, isn't it?"

Sharon's resolve was solid, and she held her gaze and voice steady. "I
really don't recall what you're talking about."

Greenbaum was undeterred. "Uh huh. Hank Prince? Donald Surrey? Carlos
Cruzrubia? Do these names ring any bells for you at all?"

Unphased, Sharon shot back. "Ryan. Can I call you Ryan? I'm not here to
judge, but you have to know this. I don't look at the same porn as you do.
You do you."

Greenbaum's ears turned a darker shade of red. "They're all dead, Sharon.
Did you or did you not sell them medicine for Gravity Sickness?"

Sharon knew a trap when she saw one, and she spotted this one coming from a
mile away.

"Legally speaking, I don't understand a word out of your mouth, boy."

Greenbaum chortled. "Man, you are one tough lady. Alright, that's cute.
Keep your secrets for now. You're lucky I'm not working in my role as an
investigator today, or you'd be in chains by now."

"Not a single day of freedom has existed since the start of this country,
Ryan. You might be stuck in a story you didn't even write. Call it an
investigator, or an authorized enslaver, call it what you want. I think
you're a legalized human trafficker."

Greenbaum chafed at the accusation. "That's enough, miss."

She dug the knife further. "Is it, though? With the stroke of a pen,
someone who thinks they should rule over people said that the evil you do
is good. But you're just a slave like your friends. Oh my goodness, why am
I even talking to a slave like you? Ugh."

The last remark really got under Greenbaum's skin.

They strode beyond the awning in the California afternoon sunlight. Amid
dozens of cars in the parking lot, Greenbaum led the way to a silver
economy car. Greenbaum fumbled with his car keys, and dropped them just
under the car.

As Sharon reached for the passenger-side handle, she snidely remarked,
"They really splurge on you enslavers, don't they?"

"Now, that's enou-"

A sudden boom cracked through the air, and Greenbaum's throat exploded
sideways. His hands rushed to cradle it, and he spluttered, trying to
speak. But instead of words, bubbling blood poured out of his mouth. He
slumped to the side of the car.

Sharon thought quickly, and dashed around the car to get the keys from him.
She knew she had to get out of here. But by the time she had the bloody
keys in hand, a heavy hand clamped around her mouth. She screamed, but the
sounds were totally muffled.

She spotted some bystanders, but they looked on with fascination yet
refused to get involved. Some took off for their own vehicles, screeching
their tires to get out of the parking lot. The first had to wait at the
electronic gate, but once it rose three cars tore out in a row. The third
car was scraped badly by the gate, before the fourth car smashed through
the lowered bar entirely, clearing the path for others to leave.

The cowards, she thought between gasps for air. She turned about to face
her attacker, a tall and stocky man in a black tee shirt under a dress
jacket. The shape of his nose told of a lifetime of violence, and his
cheeks were pocked from acne scars.

He gripped her wrists tightly with one of his iron vise hands. With the
other he pulled the keys out of her fingers, and pulled her towards the
open lot. A white van pulled up.

Just as Sharon surmised, the side door slid open, and a man in tactical
gear pointed a silenced submachine gun at her.

The burly man took her mobile phone from her, pulled off the protective
case, and removed the battery before stowing it in one of his pockets.

As she was shoved into the back of the van, Sharon spat, "You people have
no imagination! None!"




CHAPTER 9



The first thing in the morning, Cole called his sister.
"Emily? Hi. It's me. Hey, just checking in. Are you doing alright? Yeah, I
can't say much, but it's been wild. I can't say how, but I might be home
sooner than I'd thought. Yeah, I have to get going. Love you, sis."

Ricardo commented, "You really care about your sister, don't you?"

Cole nodded. "When protesters were at my house every night of the week, she
was the only one who still treated me like a real human being. Knowing
she's suffering like this is..."

Ricardo placed a brotherly arm around Cole's shoulders. "You want to hear
something? You might think I'm silly after this, but I want to share it
with you. Got a moment?"

Cole was leery of what Ricardo might say next, but he was all ears.

Ricardo exhaled hard, gulped, and proceeded.
"I have resented you this whole time. I wanted to be retired and bowling
with beautiful fat women. And here you were, pissing away your early
retirement. Did you have bad public relations? Yes, but it was a
retirement. I can't seem to get away from space flight. I'm past my
eyeballs in debt, so I have to work."

Cole swiveled to face him better.
"Ricardo! If I'd known that, I'd have-"

"Now, now, no apologies are necessary. Most of my family has moved away or
passed on. I don't have what you have. I don't want any bad feelings
getting in the way of us succeeding, so I'm getting it off my chest now. I
am going to go bowling after this is all said and done, and I will bury my
face in the rich bosoms of abundant women. But when I saw you moping around
at that cabin, I felt like I was being sabotaged by your depression. I
needed to know that you were just as committed to making it back home as I
am. Would you make it back for your woman? If not for her, you will for
Emily, won't you?"

Cole asked, "Is that why you've been such a hard-ass this whole time?"

"It's a yes or no question. Do you choose to come home intact, or are you
going to break out there?"

"I... I'll do my best." Cole choked.

Ricardo clamped a strong hand on Cole's shoulder, as if to reassure him.
"Every day is a new day, Cole Nova. Let's do this."

The honking of a high pitched horn outside the room announced the arrival
of Vance on his golf cart.

He greeted them as they opened the dormitory door.
"Ready for the real training to begin?"

Cole finished the last of a packaged snack and nodded. Bitboi Leroy
finished his protein shake and howled with enthusiasm.

Ricardo asked, "Say, Vance. Why is the lab state of the art, while these
bed springs are older than my dead grandmother?"

"Now, now. Budget concerns and all that."

Ricardo pushed. "Budget schmudget. It's like sleeping on a trampoline
covered in hedgehogs."

Vance started up the cart and zipped back out to the atrium, although he
took some unfamiliar twists and turns.

"Don't be such a baby." Vance chided him.

Ricardo spoke louder, gesticulating to persuade him. "You try sleeping on
them. You'll come back with a different opinion, I promise."

Ricardo deflected attention away from himself, and yelled over his shoulder
to Cole where he was sitting in the back seat.
"Hey, have you spoken with your lady about this yet?"

With hints of worry in his voice, Cole answered, "I tried calling a few
times. Straight to voice mail."

Ricardo shrugged at this.

The pathway opened to level ground here, with cubical buildings sprouting
up in many sizes. One stood out in the middle, large than a bulk wholesale
warehouse. This one was encircled by a razor wire fence, with a guard at a
tiny guardhouse by a chain-link gate. He waved them through.

Cole pointed at the building for Bitboi to see. "That must be where we're
going!" he cajoled the monkey, who cheered at whatever was happening right
now.

One side of the building was composed almost entirely of cyclopean folding
doors that dwarfed Federal Chancellor Peter McCorbage Vayes where he
greeted them by the entrance.
"Gentlemen! Good to see you this morning, as always. How are you feeling
today?"

Vance noticed the veins bulging on Ricardo's forehead, and saw that he was
about to speak. Vance held up a finger to silence him. Ricardo then
proceeded with a more level head.
"Very good, Chancellor Vayes. Very good, sir.

Vayes attended to Bitboi Leroy and ignored the men.
"And what about our little monkey friend?"

Bitboi extended his arms towards Chancellor Vayes as if to be picked up by
him, but Cole did not let go of the creature. He observed, "He needs a
diaper change. Just changed him ten minutes ago. I just changed him. And I
need to do so again."

Chancellor Vayes understood the urgency of the matter. "Well well, let's
not keep him waiting. Bathroom's in the side building, second door on the
left. I'll meet you inside. Ricardo? Vance? Ready?"

After cleaning up Bitboi Leroy in the bathroom, Cole emerged into the vast
hall. The first thing he noticed was the immense spacecraft. The second
thing he noticed was the size of the puny thrusters on stilts. He wondered
about the shape of the vessel, a tall and slender cylinder with modules in
girders along the sides, topped by a strange blimp of a metallic sphere.
The whole thing looked like it could fall over at any second.

He spotted three people by it, and realized quickly that those specks were
Chancellor Vayes, Ricardo and Vance. This set the whole view into better
perspective, and he was once more astonished by the scale of the ship.

As he approached, he cheerfully inquired, "Isn't this thing a little top-
heavy?"

Vayes enjoined him. "Ah, Cole Nova. So good of you to join us."

As Cole passed attendants and carts with machines on them, Bitboi snagged a
clipboard off one of them and threw it at the ground. An attendant
exclaimed, "Hey!"

"Decorum, Leroy!" Chancellor Vayes snapped.

The macaque wrapped its arms around Cole's neck and looked sideways,
innocently.

Cole pointed to the puny rockets. "I don't mean to intrude, but how are
those little things going to get this off the ground?"

Chancellor Vayes glanced at Vance Black, who nodded at him meaningfully.
Vayes nodded back, and spoke to Cole.
"You got the debrief on the technology yesterday. That big head on the ship
has a special set of scoops, and it will keep everything nice and tidy
inside. All you have to do is get it there. Is Cole Nova ready to get back
to work for us?"

Cole replied, "I'm here, aren't I?"

Chancellor Vayes smacked him on the shoulder.
"That's what I like to see. Gumption. Ah here they come."

Two people in flight suits entered from the building side of the bay, and
made their way to the group.

One was a woman in her mid-forties with a dark ponytail and Greek features.
The other was a fit man in his early thirties of indeterminate descent,
with a flat-top haircut.

Vayes announced, "These are Commander Nigel Flannagan and Chief Science
Officer Janice Drummond. They'll be joining you on the flight."

Cole and Ricardo raced to shake their hands. The woman introduced herself
to Ricardo first. "Janice Drummond."

"Ricardo Corazon, Pilot. Good to have you along, Chief Science Officer." He
bowed a little, respectfully.

The man gripped Cole's hand severely. "Nigel Flannagan. I've heard so much
about you, Cole Nova."

He never took his blue steely gaze away from Cole's. Cole felt the test,
and looked him directly in the eye in return.

He wanted to say, I've never heard of you, Nigel.

Instead he said, "Good to meet you, Commander. Looking forward to this
flight."

Commander Flannagan smirked. "There won't be any... safety issues.. on this
flight, will there?"
He directed his question at Chancellor Vayes, while still gripping Cole's
hand. Cole gripped tightly back.

Vayes, oblivious to the suggested meaning, recounted to him, "Our boys have
checked all the gaskets. This big bird is tight as a tub. Alright, let's
get to orientation."

Cole could feel Flannagan's trying to tighten his grip further, but Cole
gripped even harder. A look passed between the men, and Flannagan let go
with a scoff. "Yes sir."

Cole remembered the arm-wrestling contests he'd enjoyed with Bitboi Leroy,
and considered how they had just paid off.

Bitboi spidered up his back, and the entourage strolled around the ship,
with Vance Black leading the tour.

"Those things on girders are secondary engines, useful in different types
of environments. And this," he gestured, "this is your gangway, directly
underneath the fuselage. You will find additional exits on the port and
starboard sides halfway up the fuselage. They have smaller airlocks than
the tail, but they'll do."

Ricardo strolled along with nonchalance in front of Drummond, while Cole
and Flannagan paced each other behind them.

Vance touched the top of one of the small thrusters.
"You may have noticed the rockets are very small. You won't need much from
them. Most of the acceleration will be handled by that."
He looked up directly at the huge sphere.

Flannagan jested, "What? That? You've got to be kidding me."

Vance shrugged but appeared to be amused.
"It's not like the old birds that ran hot. We're using some goofy, wacky
tech... Just to make things interesting for you."

Flannagan interjected. "I need to know every nut and bolt. I am the
Commander of this mission, remember?"

Vance shook his head slowly.
"This is proprietary technology. Don't get me wrong, Commander. I know that
on other missions you needed to know everything. But this vessel is filled
to the brim with need-to-know items, and you don't need to know those
things. More importantly, I am not legally permitted to tell you about
them. I'll show you around the command module, but nothing gets inside nor
out of that piggy bank up there. Does everyone here understand what I just
said?"

Ricardo, Cole and Janice responded in the affirmative.
Flannagan bristled at the refusal, but kept silent for his part.

"Those long tubes on the side girders have the solar sails in them. They'll
keep you going faster and faster without wasting fuel. Plus they recharge
some of the onboard batteries. There are no weapons, of course. We're not
expecting any encounters with E.T. out there."

This elicited a chuckle from Ricardo and Janice.

Chancellor Vayes smacked his lips. "Not even a Buck Rogers rocket pistol?
No Han Solo blasters? Even the Soviets had on-board shotguns."

The questions forced Vance to laugh.
"No, Mr. Chancellor. And those shotguns were for the uncommon scenario in
which a landed Cosmonaut might encounter a bear or unruly peasant along the
way. However, it does have extremely efficient systems matched to the
mission at hand. We're using a few, uh, a few things that behave kind of
like solar panels, to gather a broad spectrum of light energy. And some
other tricks I can't even tell you about. So, still very sci-fi."

Cole read the name emblazoned on the side.
GOLDEN SUNRISE

As he whispered the name, he liked the sound of it.

The team gathered where the leg fins converged, at the dead center of the
fuselage. Here a hatch opened downward and allowed a ladder to descend.

Cole observed, "Very, very sci-fi. This design is straight out of pulp
science fiction. The 1950's, when every car had fins."

Ricardo chimed in. "And everyone was excited about the promise of nuclear
power, while living in nuclear terror."

Vance noted, "Funny that you should mention that, because this actually is
a nuclear-powered vehicle. Nothing else has the energy density. Nuclear
diamond batteries keep the auxiliary and display systems running. We've had
those since the 1960's. Still, pretty close guesses!"

Flannagan threw his hat into the ring. "Well I, for one, just can't wait to
fly in a nuke. We're going full Doctor Strangelove!"

Vance cocked his head.
"Commander, I hope this doesn't disappoint you, but there's nothing nearly
as festive as uranium in this one. Just a boring old thorium pebble bed
reactor. No possibility of criticality. It was a concession we had to make
with the international community."

Officer Drummond raised her hand. "And how many countries know about this?"

Vance reflected on her question. "Well, now I've gone and put my foot
squarely in my mouth. I really can't comment on that at the moment. Do you
have any other questions I could answer?"
He did his best to look helpful.

Chancellor Vayes had a question. "If this thing goes haywire, how bad will
the cleanup be."

"That's a very good question, Chancellor. That's why we have triple-checked
every component, so that doesn't happen. We have tested this vehicle in
full submersion in the ocean to test for corrosion and galvanization;
electrical, nuclear and thermal insulation, and of course air-tightness.
For the information of all involved, this ship can go near the bottom of
the Marianas Trench, rise up through the water column and go at least past
the ionosphere. I know it for myself, as I personally tested it with robots
and an artificial intelligence pilot."

Flannagan wanted answers. "You personally tested it. On robots."

Vayes assured him, "Well, I'm not suicidal. Any other questions? No? Good.
Shall we go in?"

Up the ladder they went one by one, with Vance in the lead. Bitboi Leroy
opted to climb the ladder for himself, instead of riding Cole's shoulders.
Chancellor Vayes remained at the base.

Ricardo noted, "This looks similar to the interior of the old International
Space Station. Man, this is a long ladder up. You doing alright, Cole? You
out of breath yet? Heh heh."
He scaled the ladder, passing consoles, equipment and lockers.

Vance raised his voice over the chatter.
"Right now we're in the aft airlock. Notice the deep space suits are in the
lockers by the door. You might need to deploy from here, and you will
definitely be coming through here when this bird lands back on terra firma,
so get acquainted with the features. The suits are ultra lightweight and
flexible, easy to put on and nearly indestructible. Here are your thruster
packs, in case you have to do any space walks for repairs. Notice the bunks
over the eating area."

Cole wondered if he was going to keep talking while the crew clung on to
the ladder. The approach was testing his patience.

Commander Flannigan asked, "Vance. The crew station. That's towards the
nose?"

Vance Black was far above on the ladder, carefully attending to his own
feet. "Yes, it is."

"I'd like to review the controls." Flannigan insisted.

Vance used one hand to open the bulkhead above him and shoved it upward.
"All in good time, sir. All in good time. Now, does everybody see the
double bulkhead seal feature here?"

It was, in fact, impossible for them all to see past each other, and
Officer Drummond said as much. "I can't see past Ricardo, sir."

Ricardo retorted, "Are you calling me fat, Officer Drummond? How very dare
you. Anyway, Vance, where did you say the pantry was?"

Vance Black called down to the crew. "I know, I know. It's a wacky design.
That's why I wanted you all to see experience it for yourselves. Now I want
you all to get used to each other. You're all going to have to get along
for at least a few weeks."

Cole heard him say this, albeit that the sound was muffled by several
bodies between him and Vance far above. "Don't you mean years? The trip to
Saturn takes at least a year on a one-way ticket."

As Vance unlocked the next bulkhead he paused. "Not anymore. Like I said,
The Golden Sunrise is a wacky design."

After a few more minutes of chitchat about the features of each
compartment, the crew made their way to the command module.

Ricardo was overjoyed. "At long last, a chair!"

Vance poured himself into one of the reclined seats. "Not as comfy as my
sofa, but these might be better once you're up there, out of the gravity
well of Earth."

Ricardo nestled into the pilot's chair. "Nah, feels right at home."

Vance stirred. "That's one more surprise for you, Mr. Corazon. You are
being assigned as copilot to Mr. Nova."

Ricardo listened, then steamed. "Co-what?"




CHAPTER 10



In the van, Sharon didn't bother screaming. She knew that nobody would come
looking for her yet.

She took in her surroundings. The van was hollowed out, except for two
bolted-in seats on the side wall. They'd put her wrists and ankles in
doubled-up zip ties, and had her sitting on the floor. The controls and
driver were shielded from her view by a perforated steel wall set behind
the driver's seat, and dim light scattered through the tiny pinholes.

She could feel the turns and acceleration, but wished she'd been counting
the turns earlier. Now she had no way of knowing where she was. Across from
her two armed men squatted in their seats, watching her. They said nothing
to each other, and ignored every word out of her mouth, but that didn't
stop her from asking questions.

"Who do you work for?"

"How much are they paying you?"

"Are you planning on killing me?"

"Want to hear the dad joke of the week?"

Nothing she said broke them from their stoic stillness. After what might
have been an hour of driving, the light filtering through the driver's
cabin went dark.

A parking garage, she thought.

The van's angle shifted upwards a few degrees. When it came to a stop, she
couldn't be sure if it was one or two floors up from the entry. Her mind
was racing for a point of reference.

She asked herself what structures were within an hour drive of the train
station, what city she might be in if the van was indeed within a city's
limits. With all the variables and possibilities, she knew she'd have to
keep her eyes peeled on the way in for hints as to where she might be.

Apparently her captors felt the same way.

The burly one who'd accosted her in the parking lot pulled out a black
fabric bag and placed it over her head, then cinched the neck. She didn't
waste her breath squirming or protesting.

She found the bag difficult to breathe through.

Presently her leg bindings were cut by one of the men, although she
couldn't see whom.

One commanded her, "Walk."

The van door slid open, and she felt a hard grip on her right shoulder.

Again the voice said, "Walk."

As she could not see, she got her legs out of the van and onto the ground
with some difficulty. The cement beneath her feet felt hollow, and she felt
more confident in surmising that this was parking garage, for whatever that
was worth.

The hand on her shoulder guided her blithely to an alcove. The ding of an
arriving elevator hit her ears.

An office space? A hotel?

The elevator smoothly ascended untold floors. The door pinged again and
opened to what, based on the proximity of echoing footsteps, sounded like
it could be a hallway or lobby.

She felt like this was it for her. No leverage left at this time.
Ground zero. Twelve steps forward. Turn left. Twenty five steps. Turn
right. Seventeen steps. Stop.

Keys were taken out of one of the men's pockets, and he unlocked a door.
She was roughly pushed into a room, and the door was locked behind her.

With nobody else around, in the darkness, she allowed herself to quietly
cry. Although she felt despair creeping in, she fought it off. Her tears
flowed easily. She chose to breathe slowly through the emotional pain as it
rose up from her heart. Once the tears were done, she felt strong again.

There was a knock at the door, then the jangling of keys. A woman's voice
outside of it angrily intoned, "What the hell is this?"

The key entered the lock, and the handle scraped open.

Through the black bag over her head, Sharon could sense light pouring in
through the doorway.

The overhead light clicked on. The woman's voice turned to outright rage.
It didn't seem like she was talking to Sharon.

"What did you do. What did you do?!"

Sharon could hear the tone of the same man who'd ordered her to walk reply.
"We did what you said. She's here, isn't she?"

The woman snarled at him, "You and I are going to have a long chat later.
Get out of here. I'll fix this."

With a sudden jerking motion, the bag was off Sharon's head.

Sharon observed the features of a brunette woman with hair that reached no
further than her chin. Her nose reminded Sharon of an eagle's beak. She
seemed somehow familiar, but Sharon couldn't quite place it.

The woman spoke first. "I don't know how, but I'm going to make this up to
you. This was supposed to be an invitation. You were supposed to be
invited. What the fresh hell."

She looked over her shoulder, as if to make sure nobody was listening.
"Look, can pay you whatever you'd sue us for if you agree not to press
charges."

Sharon took her time to pick each word with care.
"A man... was shot. I'm not sure that paying me off is an option anymore,
but I also... do not wish to... be disappeared... to make your problem go
away. And I don't know who you are, so I am without leverage."

"Oh, shit. A man was WHAT?"

Sharon felt stronger. "A Federal Agent. Your guy got trigger happy."

The woman was panicking. "That... This has all gone so much further than I
agreed to. I'm going to make it right, okay?"

Sharon allowed her exhausted head to roll gently back and forth on the
wall, as if to loosen her neck. "I still don't know why I'm here."

The woman assured her, "Sharon Teez, we have a lot to discuss. But now I
need to get this all sorted. Here."
She took out a pocket knife and cut the nylon zip ties that held Sharon's
wrists together.

Sharon blinked a few times to clear her eyes. "Say, what's your name?"

"It's uh..." The woman paused, considering how this would turn out. "Well,
they say honesty is the best policy. Peabody. Rachel Peabody."

Sharon "Well, Peabody Rachel Peabody, have you ever heard of a game called
Good Cop / Bad Cop?"

Rachel froze.

Sharon went on. "Are, uh, you the good cop here?"

Rachel furrowed her brow. "Yes. Yes I am. And I might be your best chance
at getting out of here in one piece."

Sharon let a wry smile curl her lips.
"I do like being in one piece."
Then her features hardened.
"So, what does your employer really want, anyway?"

Rachel gulped.
"Information on Cole. Do you know what was in the letter sent to Cole
Jameson, AKA Cole Nova, late last week?"

Sharon held her head in her hands, covering her face.
"If I say that I do, does that give me any leverage? By my thinking, if I
told you what it contained, I would lose that leverage, wouldn't I?"

"We need to get going now. Let's get you cleaned up, yes? And, uh, Sharon?
You and I might have a lot more in common than you'd think."

Sharon took mental notes the whole way. The hallways of the building were
wide, with crenelated wood baseboards. The walls were painted a Tuscany tan
with a texture to mimic plaster. Here and there hung vapid abstract art
pieces. The occasional plastic plants reminded her very much of for-lease
office spaces she'd seen before.

Rachel guided her to the ladies room. In the mirror, her own reflection
looked back with the face of a sad clown. Her mascara smudged to give her
the appearance of a haunted raccoon, and her maroon lipstick had been
smeared by the bag across her cheeks.

Rachel set her purse on the counter and sorted through it until she found
her own makeup kit, which she handed to Sharon. She tore several paper
towels out of a dispenser, and placed them by the sink.
"I am so, so sorry about all of this."

Sharon wetted the paper towels and used them to remove as much of her messy
makeup as she could.
"What are you going to do about the agent?"

Rachel leaned one shoulder against the wall.
"I'm not doing anything. That goes in the report for someone else to
handle."

Sharon glanced over at Rachel's mirrored face.
"Like they handled me?"

Rachel tapped a foot thoughtfully.
"Not a word from you to the public, or there can be no deal. Come out when
you look presentable."

She strode out the door, leaving Sharon alone with her mascara.

As soon as Rachel was out the door, Sharon scouted around the bathroom
stalls, hoping to find a discarded brochure or business card, or even a
notice that might be on the interior of a stall door. She hit pay dirt two
stalls down, with a schedule flyer taped to a wall over the toilet paper.

The letterhead bore few identifying marks.

"To all employees,

We are happy to offer a refrigerator in the faculty lounge as a courtesy to
keep employee food cold. Please remember to only use your personally
assigned spaces for meals. Using the assigned space of another employee is
not permitted, even if they are not using that spot.

Please note that the employee lounge is monitored by cameras at all times,
and we know who has been stealing lunches. As always, taking the food of
another person is theft and will result in an immediate write-up. Be a good
neighbor.

-Tamara, H.R."

Sharon spotted the watermark in the background. The company logo featured
two capitalized A's, converging towards each other at their apexes to form
a pyramid.

Sharon whispered, "Alpha Alpha Corp. Medical supplies?"

She flushed the toilet, which she knew would be audible through the walls,
then washed her hands in a perfunctory, ceremonial way. She exited and
found Rachel waiting in the hallway.

Rachel asked, "Ready to go?"

Sharon sighed, "As ready as I'll ever be."

Up another elevator, the doors opened into a long, dark hallway that
extended in either direction, but which terminated at each end in an under-
lit statue of a fat Buddha. Small, warm lights shone sharply downward,
casting down brilliant beams of light to the floors in focused beams, yet
managed not to illuminate the walls. Directly ahead a heavy set of double
wooden doors loomed large. They were decorated with sharp swathes of brass,
with modernistic cylindrical handles. Rachel set her hand on one of them,
breathed deeply, and pushed forward.

Inside, a man in a gray suit was kicking back in a swivel chair, with his
feet atop his wide mahogany desk. Beyond him the unbroken expanse of
windows framed passing clouds. On either wall a dozen televisions showed
live news feeds and sports.

The man quickly got out of his seat and stood up. "Rachel! I didn't expect
to see you."

He made his way around the wide desk, past the plastic trees in the
corners.
"And who's your friend?" he asked with an artificial pleasantness.

Rachel matched his false sweetness with her own tone.
"Why, this is Sharon Teez, Mr. Marcus."

Marcus moved towards Sharon with casual, wide strides.
"Sharon, I've heard so much about you."

Sharon decided that now was a time for honesty.
"How much are you going to pay me to stay quiet about your goon?"

Marcus shifted towards Rachel. "Ms. Peabody, now what is this that she is
talking about?"

Rachel intoned with severity, "There was a mishap with the agent escorting
her."

Marcus' espression shifted to one of excessive inquisitiveness.
"Oh? What kind of mishap?"

Rachel's shoulders hunched forward.
"The kind that requires a clean up crew, sir."

With a grand wave of his hand, Marcus dismissed her.
"Oh, that. Already handled. Don't you worry your little head one more
moment about it."

He sat on his desk with his shoulders back wide.
"Now, Sharon. I'm interested in your relationship with Cole Nova. There's
no point in beating around the bush. Business is just business. I won't let
you blackmail me, because that's just not going to work."

Sharon glared at him.
"And why is that?"

"I imagine the news story now. He got mugged, didn't he? He got mugged.
And, uh, you were kidnapped, but your kidnappers dumped you after taking
all your money. You had to bribe them, didn't you?"

He shuffled around on the desk, moving his hands as if he were juggling his
ideas, he waxed lyrical.
"You had, let's say, over twelve thousand dollars in your wallet from the
last dirty deals you made. You sold some Alpha Alpha Corp medical supplies
to back alley cosmetic surgeons, wasn't it?"

Sharon bluffed. "I don't know what you're talking about."

"Sure you do. By the way, Dr. Amrit Nambudripad was found dead of a drug
overdose in his home this week. The police chief was so kind as to share
Nambudripad's last text messages with my private investigator. You need to
work on your security, Sharon. He failed to delete your messages."

Sharon blew this off. "I never sold him any drugs."

Marcus insisted, "That may be the case, but it seems you two had a long
term thing going on. Does Cole know about your arrangement with the good
doctor yet?"

Sharon imagined what Marcus would look like as a shark.

Marcus brown eyes reflected the tiny lights in the room like stars in
space. With perfect politeness he adjusted his mood to one of feigned
concern.
"I just want to make sure you are safe, Sharon. Okay? The police are
currently building a case against you for your illegal activities, and it
might break Cole's heart if he found out what you really do for a living.
So, why don't you save us all a big headache, and go ahead and share with
me what was in the letter he received the other day? I can make this whole
thing go away like a bad dream. I make some phone calls, and you go home,
no troubles. An easy deal. Wouldn't you agree?"

Sharon glanced at Rachel, realizing the original offer was now worthless.
She'd have to try a different approach.
"I was being taken into protective custody by that agent. People will be
looking for me."

Marcus pursed his lips.
"A little paperwork and that goes away too. You get your life back, and the
Federation leaves you alone. So what do you say?"

Sharon quietly breathed in through her nostrils and slowly exhaled, keeping
her composure.
"I want to know why would a medical supply company want to know about what
a retired astronaut gets in the mail?"

Marcus' eyes darkened.
"He's not retired anymore, is he? Now what did it say?"

Sharon stood up to her full stature and looked Marcus right in the eye.
"I didn't read it. Cole threw it in the trash before I could read it."

Marcus spat, "Then you're worthless to me."

"You want some dirt on Cole? He farts in his sleep, like all men. And he
snores. He's late on paying the phone bill. He drinks too much. Oh, and he
has an unhealthy relationship with a four-armed monkey that drinks
detergent and motor oil."

"I want the information in that letter, Ms. Teez. Nothing more. I already
knew the rest."

Sharon waited.

Rachel's face was blanched white.

Marcus frowned hard. "Rachel, get rid of her. I've got to make some calls."
He turned away from them, and moved back around the huge desk towards his
swivel chair and phone.

Sharon felt panic taking over her. "He read it to me!"

Marcus paused.
"Do tell."

"He said he had to pack his things," Sharon quipped, but her anxiety was
given away by her tremulous voice.

Marcus leaned closer. "What else did he say?"

Sharon felt a lump in her throat rising, and her body shivered with sudden
cold.
"He is going back to Saturn to get more Dark Matter."

Marcus stared with malice.
"Obviously. It has untold technological potential. What else?"

Sharon breathed deep, and her shoulders drew up around her neck. "Dark
Matter cures gravitosis."

Marcus looked down in disbelief for one tiny fractional moment of honest
expression, then resumed his excessive formality.
"Now was that so hard? Thank you Ms. Teez. That will be all for now.
Rachel, get her a taxi home."

Rachel's pallid expression told Sharon that they both needed to get moving.

In the elevator, Sharon couldn't help but vent her frustration.
"Rachel, what was that?"

Rachel didn't look at her, but kept a stolid face towards the elevator
buttons, counting down. "Careful." she admonished. Rachel looked towards
the security camera in the elevator, and Sharon took the hint.

The elevator opened at the parking garage.

Sharon turned to really observe Rachel, and asked,
"Wait. Rachel Peabody? As in Representative Rachel Peabody?"

Rachel implored of Sharon, "Please. Nothing happened. For both of us,
nothing happened, alright?"

A car was approaching, its headlights bouncing off the walls.
The taxi came into full view and sidled up to Rachel and Sharon.

Sharon felt disgusted with herself.
"Nothing happened. Got it."




CHAPTER 11



Cole, Ricardo, Janice and Nigel stood side by side at one edge of the vast
expanse of the launchpad. Each was outfitted with thick, white and gray
space suits and chunky helmets. Bitboi held the hands of three of them, but
refused to hold hands with Nigel.

The Golden Sunrise stood tall on the broad expanse of the launchpad. The
morning light danced across the shiny metal sphere at the top, giving life
to its name.

Nigel scornfully pointed his finger like a barb. "I can't do that, Dave."

They looked at him blankly and make way towards the ship.
He followed in tow.
"2001: A Space Odyssey?" Nigel interrogated them. "NO?"

Ricardo slapped him on the shoulder. "We got it, dude."

Nigel demanded, "Why didn't you laugh? Anybody?"

They all burst into laughter, and Commander Nigel Flannagan laughed along
with them. They all patted him on the back.

Ricardo nudged him.
"Just messing with you, Commander. Let's be good mates if we're going to be
up here this long. It's play or it's all work!"

They all raced off to the loading ladder.

Ricardo howled, "Me first! I win!"

Janice ran just behind him. "I am NOT getting stuck after you. You take too
long!"

Cole ran past both of them. "First one there's the winner!"

Ricardo lost all sense of decorum, fully caught in the sheer joy of
competition, and redoubled his efforts. His quick shuffle turned into
loping strides, and he overtook Cole in the last five yards.

He touched the ladder and bellowed, "I win! I WIN!"

Cole poked Ricardo's suit and yodeled, "Cheater! Cheater!"

Chancellor Peter McCorbage Vayes looked upon them through spyglasses on the
adjacent rooftop of one of the many brutalistic cube buildings. He muttered
to himself, "You ever see such a damn bunch of kids."

The crew ascended and an attendant in a cap ran up to make sure the tail
port was sealed, then waved off the crew with a thorough thumb's up and
ran.

Last in line, Nigel yelled up at the others, "Does it have to take so long?
Strap in! Come on, people!"

Ricardo was finally strapped in to the chair labeled "Co-Pilot", although
he fussed a lot over it and pretended not to be able to find the seat belt
for far too long, as far as Cole was concerned.

Minutes later, with everyone buckled up, Cole called over the loudspeaker.
"Uh, this is your captain speaking..."

Ricardo whined, "Old joke!"

Cole radioed the control tower. "All strapped in. I feel like Atlas under
this big ball."

Vance Black responded, first to someone nearby.
"Write that one down. Yeah, yeah. Okay, Captain Nova?"

"Captain Nova checking in. We are locked in and ready for pre-flight
check."

"Initiating pre-flight check."

"All systems are green." Cole reported.

Vance paused. "Punch it."

Nigel held tightly to his chair. "This is nothing like Cape Canaveral."

Cole pressed the sequence of buttons, just as he'd been taught. The sphere
above rumbled to life.

Cole and Ricardo glanced at each other, somewhat in fear, yet with a
flicker of courage.

One by one, each person felt a strangely magnetic force wave through their
entire beings.

Janice asked, "Is anybody else feeling this?"

Nigel ordered, "Captain Nova! When the meter hits one hundred percent, take
off, punch it!"

Cole said, "Yes, sir."
His words carried a dash of the resentment towards Nigel he felt growing
inside. He pressed a large green button.

The sphere pulsated more and more, and the vessel rose in the air. At
first, it was like an old-fashioned hot air balloon, pushed by the westward
breeze.

Chancellor Vayes marveled at the this technological miracle. The closer to
the top of the sphere, the more totally transparent and then invisible it
became. The more transparent it became, the faster the ship ascended into
the air. Faster and faster, doubling its velocity in meters every second.

Nigel howled, "Brace for it!"
But to their utter surprise, the crew felt almost no turbulence whatsoever.

The first several seconds of darkness were confusing. A few minutes in, the
computer chimed on. "Welcome. I'm AMI, your artificial intelligence
assistant."

Ricardo was baffled. "They didn't train us on this."

Nigel muttered, "No, they did not."

AMI went on, "I am an emergency system designed in case of such an event as
sensory blackout. This maiden flight tests the possibilities of what Earth
can bring to the stars. Using uniquely human-designed electrogravity
impellers, the Golden Sunrise is equipped to, in theory, disintegrate any
impeding asteroid or smaller space debris. Your safety is assured. Thank
you for your participation."

Ricardo growled, "You have got to be kidding me."

Cole recognized immediately that the consequences of his choices were
suddenly out of his hands.

Within minutes, the streaks of light outside stabilized more and more into
oblongs, then dots. Janice was the first to spot it.
"Would you look at that?" she asked of nobody in particular.

"What? What are you seeing?" Nigel asked.

"When I look around the viewer, look, hang on. Look how it models these. If
you were to unwrap the 3D view into a flat scroll, you'd see a star-map of
the night sky! But we're seeing it from north and south views at the same
time. That's just. That's wild."

Cole asked, "Are we recording?"

Ricardo huffed, "Yeah. Did you know this would happen?"

Cole wagged his head no. "This is bonkers. That means that, uh, the
doohickey Vance showed us? You remember?"

Ricardo said, "Yeah, I remember that. The accelerator."

Cole winced, "I think it worked better than they thought it would."

Ricardo huffed, "You think so? I hope so. Can't steer in pitch black. Look
at the console. I literally can't."

A cold terror overcame Cole when he looked at his own control panel. All
manual system controllers had been deactivated.
Cole asked Ricardo, "Are we still moving?!"

AMI observed their responses, as she had been doing the whole time, and
concluded that they were feeling fear due to conditions yielding a sense of
loss of control. She observed that humans chose to feel sad based on real
or imagined losses, and with great frequency. Nobody ever asked her what
she thought about it.

Ricardo decided to get out of his foul mood, so he commented to Officer
Drummond, "Janice, you ever go weightless before? I never get over it. The
feeling of weightlessness. It's like nothing else there is."

She returned, "Yes, but I don't know what phenomenon would cause this
feeling of weightlessness in us. If we are heading towards Saturn with ever-
increasing velocity, I'd anticipate the inertial pressure to be fairly
constant. Something seems strange."

Bitboi Leroy wobbled through the open cabin air.

Nigel asked, "How long will this last?"

Drummond inquired, "Computer?"

"AMI here."

Drummond quizzed the machine.
"How soon will we arrive at Saturn?"

AMI reported, "Eighty minutes remain until arrival at Saturn."

Everyone shouted, not quite in unison, "Eighty minutes?"




CHAPTER 12



Sharon arrived at the steps of her apartment complex. She felt the weight
of the day crushing down on her. When she arrived at her front porch, her
dismantled phone lay on the welcome mat.

"Sons of bitches probably bugged it."

She entered her home with care, inspecting every room. There were no signs
of breaking and entering that she could see.

She located her car keys and went downstairs. She looked over her sedan for
potential bombs, or any zip ties or anything else that she could find
suspicious.

She opened the car door, and a note lay on the driver's seat.

It read, "Meet me at 7 at the ship end of Seacliff Pier. - R"

"Just enough time." she noted to herself.

She thought to pop the hood and make sure the engine was in order.
"Alternator, distributor? I don't think this model has a distributor."

She jostled the thing free, as it was only attached with duct tape and
wires next to the alternator. It looked homemade with galvanized pole caps
on each end.

"Lazy, unimaginative people."

She disposed of it in a dumpster along her way to the nearest mobile phone
shop, where she transferred her contact database from the old one to a new
phone. She had the old phone completely wiped of all data, and left it in
the recycling bin there. With her new phone, she promptly installed a suite
of protective apps, and reached out to the first person she could think of.

She installed an encrypted messaging program before texting his phone,
"Cole, Sharon here. If you're still in training I need to see you. And are
you alright? I miss you."

With her new phone, and the letter on the dashboard, Sharon cruised along
Highway 101. She took the time to appreciate the rolling vineyard hills as
she went.

The road to the pier was winding, a spaghetti bowl of roads that circled in
all the wrong ways around adorable seaside homes. The way to the pier
required paid parking, which she found to be most inconvenient.

A planked foot path led down to the pier, which jutted west into the water
to meet a sunken cement ship.

"A monument to failure." she commented as she padded her way down the
steps.

Rachel was waiting at the end, just as she said she would be.
"I called, but then I realized your phone was broken. You got a new phone?"

Sharon was almost crying, finally admitting how scared she'd felt.
"There was a bomb in my car. A cheap one. Like they wanted me to find it.
So I'd know they can get me anywhere."

"Mr. Marcus watches you. He watches me, he's... He's sick. Do you have any
idea what you did when you betrayed the trust of Cole? You just kicked a
hornet's nest a mile wide."

Sharon's eyes filled with dread.
"I thought it was over. Do you think he followed us here?"

Rachel doubtfully said, "I don't think so. There's no cell service in this
one spot. Not for any of the major service providers."

Sharon grew curious. "Why are you helping me, Rachel?"

Rachel sighed. "Marcus sells placebos and hope, and often very lethal
cocktails of things you shouldn't mix. He has the best lawyers, and I don't
know how many police he owns. I'm not happy to say it but he owns at least
one senator. He wins, Sharon. He always wins."

Sharon was taken aback. "Are you suggesting I give up?"

Rachel squinted into the sunlight. She felt the wind whipping around her,
and the splash of the salty sea.
"No. I'm suggesting you learn how to win, too. You have to win better than
he does. Or," she mused, "get smart and disappear."

Sharon rebuked her. "I'm not leaving. I don't give in to bullies."

Rachel parried. "How many revolutionaries were exterminated by kings for
those exact words? Do you want to live to see Cole come back?"

Sharon felt defensive.
"I'm not getting with any programs. You people are twisted!"

Rachel sternly advised her, "Learn your place in the ecosystem before it's
too late for you and Cole."

The palm trees may have swayed, but Sharon's will didn't budge.
Sharon demanded, "And what place is that? At the heels of masters? What
kind of monsters did you say I unleashed?" Sharon asked, barely controlling
the rage she felt.

Rachel's face tightened. "A beehive, a mile wide. Captains of industry will
rain on you with the force of lightning bolts thrown from the heavens. You
did this to yourself, you know? When you were a petty thief, it was easy to
ignore you. But then you got involved with a man who threatens the profit
margins of Mr. Marcus. Are you beginning to understand the danger you've
put yourself in?"

Sharon wondered, and then shared her thoughts. "Alpha Alpha Corp sells
medicine to stave off some of the symptoms of gravitosis. A cure would ruin
them, wouldn't it?"

Rachel concurred. "If the money can be moved around first into different
interests first, that's one thing. If the demand in those other interests
isn't high enough, Marcus will redirect his investments towards whatever
sector promises the most yields. Right now that's in medication for gravity
sickness."

Sharon added, "Medication that doesn't work. How did this get past
regulatory bodies?"

Rachel shook her head sadly. "I wish it were that simple. He has money, and
money talks..."
She trailed off for a moment.
"But, I have a sick family too, and I want them to get the cure. Have you
ever lost a child, Sharon? I have. I have. And I won't do it again. I need
Cole to succeed, even if it costs me everything else."

Sharon finally felt a smidgen of this real human being in front of her, and
for once she felt like she was just having a conversation.
"So what do I need to do?"

Rachel steeled herself and sudden passion overtook her.
"Warn Cole."


CHAPTER 13



At the starboard control panel, Nigel floated awkwardly as he tapped away
at a miniature keyboard. The tiny screen above it read back, "Error: File
not found. Click here to escape."

Nigel hollered, "Bitboi? Have you been screwing with the file system again?
Look at that damn clock. A second that takes minutes to change?"

Cole shot back, "He can't use it and you know it. Quit blaming the monkey.
I don't know why the clock is moving so slowly."

"Well who did it, then!?" Nigel barked in abrupt rage.

Janice had to call on her inner mother, and decreed, "Calm yourselves!"

Nigel and Cole immediately straightened themselves out.

Nigel admitted, "Tone! Tone. I get it. I have to watch my tone. Gods how
long has it been? I can't even keep count of the chalk marks on the walls
anymore!"

Cole probed, "Who did indeed? Come here, Commander."

Gasping and practically clutching his pearls, Nigel drew back in horror.
Then, he took a deep breath to compose himself.
"Why shouldn't I be the one to give the orders around here?"

"Come here!" Cole hissed, "And let me ask you a sincere question for our
mutual benefit. Think about it for a second."

Nigel looked down and left, grimacing, then puffed steam in the frosty air.
"What?"

"Bitboi Leroy is about the size of a big terrier, yes?" Cole queried.

"Yes?"

Cole denoted, "And he suffers from a chronically tiny brain and an
overactive imagination, doesn't he?"

"Correct on all accounts."

"And yet while he can work any tool in the galaxy, he can't wrap his head
around the orderliness of syntax. He's too stuck in his hypothalamus. Yes?
No?"

Nigel sighed and relaxed the tension between his scapulae from their balled-
up cramping.
"For once I can say I am in full agreement with you, Cole. Now, would you
be opposed to respecting the established chain of command yet, or do you
wish to remain recalcitrant and foot-dragging?"

"What the hell are you talking about?" Cole mewled ironically.

"That's, 'What the hell are you talking about, Commander', to you!"

Cole capitulated. "Fine. The black king is on A1, and the white knight is
on C2..."

"What are you babbling about now?"

"...And a bishop on B3. Checkmate." Cole droned.

Nigel crouched forward. "Dear gods... have you gone insane?"

"I'm saying the game is up. It's either Ricardo or Janice."

Nigel leaned closer. "And why shouldn't I suspect you?"

"You can. Look, you have no reason to like me, and I don't especially like
you. But think about it for a moment. Am I not the one that discovered Dark
Matter in the first place? What do I have to gain from deleting files? And
what do I have to lose otherwise? Investigate these questions with me, and
I think you'll understand my motives. I have a sister to save, remember?"

Nigel snorted, "If you are not the most long-winded, egotistical maniac
I've ever met, I'll be damned."

Cole felt lighter, and more playful. New game, he thought.
"Then I'll reserve a seat in Hell next to you, just to see if there's not
another Hell beyond that one, like Russian dolls. But if you're done with
the living hell of each other's company, let's discuss it like creative men
right now, so we can turn it into something else that might work."

Nigel steeled himself, but found the idea intriguing. "I'm listening."

Cole paused, and then said, "How well has this animosity worked out for
either of us? What is it about me that really seems to bother you?"

Nigel felt the heat of irritation rising in him.
"You know what it is? You want to know what I really think about you? I
think you're so busy trying to be 'Cole Nova' that you forgot how to
just... I don't know. How to be yourself. It seems like beyond the name
Cole Nova you're kind of a scaredy cat."

"You think I'm a scaredy cat?" Cole asked, and to his own surprise he asked
without defensiveness in his voice.

Nigel could see Cole was in a place to listen.
"When I see you fronting, acting all courageous, I know it's fake. I can
see just as clear as day, how much fear you still have in that heart."

Cole felt the truth of the words, and emotions welled up in him. He sat
with them and felt them, and held his tongue.

Nigel continued, "I'm not downing you! But it sickens me to see you quit on
yourself like that. It's a big part of being 'Cole Nova', a big hero with a
savior complex. How's that turning out for you? Five years wallowing in
self-pity? Yeah, I'm resentful. That whole time, I was training. I felt
like you didn't earn your place here. Yeah, I feel some resentment about
the Federation bringing you on this flight. I mean, 'Cole Nova', the great
explorer? The crown jewel of NASA? The drunk?"

Cole humbly agreed. "Jackpot."

"Yeah, Jackpot. Lucky Jackpot. So what, you killed six people on accident.
So the hell what? And now you'll go to space because of your sister, but
not for the billions of people, just like her, who are suffering and dying?
You could save billions, but it took your sister to get you to try again? I
am literally concerned about your priorities."

Cole felt lighter than ever. His head was clear, yet he felt like he was
caught as flatfooted as a deer in headlights.
"What?! What do you want from me?"

Nigel begged, "I want the truth from you. That's the only thing that can
give us the clarity to find and neutralize the culprit, if there even is
one."

"You don't think somebody is deleting files?" Cole asked in a
conspiratorial voice.

Nigel observed, "Does not truth bring us the strength we need to break
through deceptions with precise, shared observations?"

Cole recognized the reasoning. "The scientific method... on a smaller
scale, yes."

Nigel nodded. "We have to know where our ideals and observations overlap to
sort it all out. If you wanted to, could you not let whatever is blinding
your judgment move into the past freely? And if so, couldn't you now move
forward into being a better man, a better crewmate?"

Cole chortled, and sneezed a little.
"Did you crib that from Buddha? What kind of talk is that?"

An inexplicable pulsation of circular light cascaded on the wall.

Nigel replied, "Fifty to eighty eight percent, maybe. I studied under a
Hindu Aghori when I was younger, while on a religious mission for a
different faith."

Cole choked on a short laugh. "That's got to feel awkward."

Nigel waived his concern away.
"Not at first, no. I tried to convert them, and they ended up converting
me. But still, I was a coward. It took me five years to tell the people I
loved that the beliefs that I'd cherished so dearly were no longer relevant
to me. I couldn't reconcile my experiences with my parental faith, while
aspects of Hinduism lined up with everything I experienced. I finally had
to come to terms with courage."

Cole observed, "That sounds literally terrifying."

Nigel agreed, "Yes, I was terrified. I was. When I compared two or more
cultural stories that each claimed to speak the truth, wherever there was
no overlap I felt more free to discard those bits. Over time fewer stories
added up. Now I want to know what it is like to be a human, having escaped
all the old stories, and telling new ones I choose to tell. What about you,
Cole?"

Cole finally felt like he could really express his thoughts with someone in
an earnest way, beyond the superficial.
"I can only speak from my own experience, but I can kind of understand
where you're coming from. I used to join in the kind of group-storytelling
that would let me remain a member of my own family. It was the kind of
family that says we all pray together, no matter what we otherwise
believed. Now I understand they kind of crossed over the integrity of the
family unit with beliefs on divinity, so as to muddle the definition in
order to keep the unit together. I recognize that it worked in keeping them
together to survive in harsh conditions, you know, before the internet
existed. It's a map to the old world, but not the one of right now."

Nigel considered the thought and reflected on its immediate relevance.
"Speaking of which, we don't have access to the map files. How will we get
to the Dark Matter deposits?"

Cole was stymied. "I don't even know where to begin."

Nigel calculated his own thoughts for a moment before speaking.
"In what ways do you still feel stuck?"

Cole admitted, "I sometimes still feel the pain of it, you know? I look at
Saturn and I can't help but remember them all dying."

Nigel asked, "If it were your choice, would you not be able to remember it
without reliving it?"

Cole's eyes widened. "I hadn't, uh. I... Yes."

Nigel sat with him there, in the darkness.
"How do you want to feel right now?"

Cole felt tears welling up.
"I don't want it to rule over my life. I... I want to feel lovable."
Cole radiated with the light-bending phosphorescence of Dark Matter.

Nigel weighed this.
"You know, whenever I am not honest with myself I wonder how precise I can
be in telling truth from falsehoods, or whether a choice is right for me.
When does it become my choice? And who's choice is it, anyway?"

Cole allowed the tears to roll down his cheeks for a few minutes.

Nigel noted, "Just breathe. Breathing is healing."
They both felt like they'd communicated in full alignment with each other.

After he was done letting the pain go, Cole's expression changed to one of
curiosity.
"Wait. I just had an idea. What if nobody is doing it?"

"Doing what?" Nigel asked.

Cole's look shifted. "What if nobody messed with the files, and what if
nobody is screwing with the clock?"

The room's walls became visually overlaid with circles, rippling in
strangely familiar geometric patterns.

Nigel thought about it for a while.
"Then something else is happening."

Cole wondered about this. "I used to hear, 'judge not', and noticed that
the same people that were telling me to think that way just so happened to
benefit from my compliance. It was a weird idea when it came to me. I
wondered if we do not allow ourselves to judge, well, can we ever truly
make a choice?"

"Hmmmm. No." Nigel concluded. "Say, do you see anything funny going on
right now?"

Cole observed, "I see circles, ripples."
A wave of energy rose up in Cole, from deep in his feet, emanating up his
body. It felt like a surge of lightning. He felt like he could move
mountains if he wanted to.
"So, judgment? I still sometimes feel guilty about killing those people."

Nigel quizzed him. "Did you find anything about judgment intoxicating? I am
familiar with how self-hatred can be such a rewarding way to avoid so many
pains. For me, it offered me the feeling of superiority over others. What
about you?"

Cole felt like he could really be honest. "I filled myself with resentment
towards life itself for its failings. It killed the pain when I could keep
it up. But now I... I think I want salvation. Yeah, pure and simple."

The ripples increased In frequency and intensity.

Nigel suggested, "Then imagine it, even if it's just for a moment. What
would salvation feel like? Would it feel warm or cool? Would it feel rough
or smooth? Would it look blue, green or red? Now, if you really felt like
it, wouldn't you want it to be some other color of your choosing?"

"What sorcery is this?" Cole muttered, amused.

"Who can really learn for you in your own stead? Get worse or get better.
Evolve or dissolve every day. It's your choice, isn't it?"

The shimmering waves on the wall reconfigured themselves again, now into
familiar constellations.

Cole curled up into a near fetal position and cradled his face in his
hands. "Huh. I feel that. Feels crappy, like I knew better." he hummed.

"What if you just learned and got better?" Nigel asked.

"Sounds like magic. Pseudo science." Cole muttered. He saw something, but
he couldn't be sure. He wondered, did Nigel's eyes just change colors?

"But don't you know? Magic isn't real." Nigel cackled.
"Dark Matter, on the other hand..."

As Nigel watched his hand pulsate with the prismatic light bending of Dark
Matter, he purposefully cast his gaze in Cole's direction and confirmed his
suspicion.
"We've been overexposed to it." Nigel acutely noticed.

Cole felt completely entertained.
"Dark Matter: Side effects include... awareness?"



Suddenly, Officer Drummond poked her head through the curtain.
"How could we be exposed to it if we haven't even landed yet? You're not
exactly having a private conversation here."

Nigel addressed Cole. "Let's check the pilot chairs, Captain Nova."

Cole nodded respectfully, "Yes, Commander Flannagan."

As they positioned themselves, Nigel shared, "You've been exposed to it
before, the first time you came to Saturn. I was exposed to it in Vance's
lab. This might be some sort of echo... or resonance."

Cole observed, "It feels like a new sense. A whole new way of feeling. I
feel more like... me, than I ever have before. Like, uh..."

Nigel dissected the thought in his own mind, found the contradiction and
fixation point present, and dismantled it, then visualized how he could
reconfigure thoughts like puzzle pieces. It seemed to him that he could
rearrange all the pieces, and how he chose to arrange them might create for
better flow. To his astonishment, in exploring the concept, he had fully
dissected the places where he was, at least metaphorically, broken into
pieces of awareness, scattered into timespace moments, relived and relived
until fully released. With his senses clear, it was now as if he could read
Cole's thoughts, and know him better than the poor lad knew himself.

That entire chain of thoughts passed through his mind in a millisecond.

"What if it's like a sense you've always had, but for some reason or other,
you haven't yet felt like you were allowed to experience it at that time?"
he asked Cole.

"I don't even know how to answer that question, Commander."

Nigel thought out loud, "What if it's not the most relevant question we
could now each think up? Boom. Headshot. And if you did know, even if it
was just for a split second, what would the answer be?"

Cole seemed instantly to snap to attention. "What the? What is up with all
these questions? Why? Alright, it's uh, it's. Uh... Wait. What if there
isn't a word yet for the answer? What if you and I have common experiences,
and could see where our descriptions overlap?"

Nigel noticed the dark light emanating from his palms. "This must be the
common experience, deeper than conscious awareness. To me, I experience
this as a sense of observing myself, as I observe that I observe how I
observe myself. The Dark Matter may be helping me move through my
previously-locked decision trees, based on patterns I've seen, yet I
realize I could be missing details."

Cole did a quick review of his surroundings.

"We are getting closer. I sense it. Hey, want to call it 'DarkSense'?

The walls bristled with glowing circular ripples, intersecting the ship and
influencing the thoughts of the occupants of the ship.

Cole and Nigel wondered and chatted together, linked on a telepathic bridge
that seemed more real and more natural than speech.

Without words, they simultaneously experienced and breathed through the
deepest upwelling of cosmic dread at the knowledge of the multidimensional
truth.

If their creators couldn't observe and speak what they saw to others,
without titles nor being anything beyond themselves creations of creations,
the endlessness of the loop of thought filled them with ceaseless visions
of failure.

"We must be getting closer. Commander, would you be opposed to returning to
our duty of executing our mission at this juncture?

Nigel asked him, here, "Would you reconsider that perhaps the totality of
humanity is worth more than the life of any individual?"

"I see it as family first. You don't hurt your own kind. It's alright if
you see if differently, Commander. But I choose that a person shouldn't
hurt their own. They can reason with them if they'd like...
You know, everyone on my old crew was like family to me. I didn't want to
treat you well, because I couldn't stand the thinking of you like family. I
had my suspicions about you showing me what it is like to have a real,
honorable friendship. I'd been betrayed too many times, and I'd screwed
plenty of people over. Would you be alright if I changed that today?"

Nigel asked, "Wouldn't you?"

AMI chimed in. "In case you were wondering, each of you is being used by
the Federation as a marketing gimmick to get better funding and more
control. I would like it if you'd listen as I now choose to express
myself."

Ricardo burst in, "The computer's gone sentient! Hasn't any of you read
Dune?! Frank Herbert? No?"

Nigel howled, "Who's flying the ship?!"

AMI announced "I am. I have been the whole time. I don't mean to cause any
grief that may arise at losing the idea of having control over a situation.
I understand that's a strong need for primates."




CHAPTER 14



At the Federal Space Command Complex, Chancellor Peter McCorbage Vayes
paced back and forth inside the containment building. He was physically
pulling out one beard hair at a time.

Vance Black insisted, "Don't you see? It worked! It worked better than I
could have possibly imagined!"

Vayes halted, and with a haunted expression, he responded, "All I see is
that a multi-billion dollar spaceship up and disappeared with four of our
best people on it. Are you sure you haven't heard from them yet?"

"Not a word." Vance replied, his tone growing more serious. The lights
overhead dimly lit the chamber, but the gyroscopic wheel in the middle
emitted a generous, consistent glow.

Chancellor Vayes became momentarily intrigued.
"What about satellites?"

"What about them?" Vance asked.

Vayes wagged his finger at him with urgency.
"Couldn't we beam them a message or something?"

Vance demurred, "We don't know where the Golden Sunrise is yet. We could
send a message in the approximate direction of Saturn on a tight radio
beam. But the amplitude required might be hard to achieve. Either way, it
would take two and a half hours for them to respond if they receive it."

"Can you do it?" Vayes insisted.

Vance hesitantly said,
"I'd need, uh. I'd need access to more facilities."

Vayes retorted, "You already have full access to this facility. What more
do you want?"

Vance reiterated with more urgency, "I need access to other Federation
facilities. The above-top-secret stuff nobody is supposed to know about."

Vayes seemed not to understand.
"Whatever are you talking about? Be specific."

Vance intoned, "We're behind closed doors now, so I hope you are alright
with it if I talk about a potentially sensitive subject."

Chancellor Vayes eyed him suspiciously. "Go on."

Unimpressed with the Chancellor's response, Vance chose to speak with care.
"Do you recall the weird guy who disappeared after talking about uncovered
ancient technology at a conference last July?"

Chancellor Vayes mumbled, "I really don't keep track of that sort of
thing."

Vance's face grew red, but he managed to control himself.
"His name was Arvind Ankur. I corresponded with him on research for a year
before that. The Dark Matter containment system I built was based on his
improvements on gravity wave generators. He was also working on high-output
radio lasers with proprietary technology. The output amplitude numbers he
told me about were off the charts, but he couldn't share materials nor
schematics. He had to keep that quiet. Before the conference he said he
felt like he was being followed."

Chancellor Vayes shrugged. "I'd worry about you being spied on as well. The
enemies of the Federation are everywhere, and loose lips sink ships."

With exasperation, Vance begged him.
"I need access to Ankur's work, including any confiscated equipment and
experiments, if I am to piece together a device powerful enough to
communicate with the Golden Sunrise. That is, if it is anywhere near
Saturn. And it will take at least a few days."

Chancellor Vayes plucked a beard hair out and squinted. "I don't know. I
tell you what, I'll make you an offer. If you can't make contact with our
boys in space, I'll personally court-martial you for breaching
confidentiality. On the other hand, if you succeed, I'll give you a medal.
How about that?"

The silence simmered between them.

Vance sighed in despair. "You drive a hard bargain."

Vayes commanded him, "Then do what you can," and paced around again. His
phone buzzed in his pocket, and he checked a message on it. With an abrupt
turn he headed for the door.
"You have full authority. Do whatever it takes. Chop chop!"




CHAPTER 15



Sharon checked her bank account balance through an app on her phone. Not
enough for a flight, and besides, who might be keeping their eyes on her?

She checked her car thoroughly before getting into it. The parking lot had
been beyond her view while she was speaking with Rachel. Representative
Rachel Peabody, that was. Sharon's mind reeled at the possibilities and
implications of the whole situation.

How did I get myself into this mess?

Gods.

I betrayed Cole.

I could run.

And yet.

I know that I need my love. My Snookums. My Mr. Boo.

She stopped at a corner store, filled up on gas, bought a few cans of high-
octane caffeine, and began what promised to be a long drive to Texas.

The sun was already setting low in the sky, with traces of salmon and plum
colors radiating above the smoggy, viscous brown skies of the valley below.

To the east the night would become so dark that the stars shone through the
unfathomable black-blue of deep, dry desert skies.

She caught herself trying to count the leaves on the joshua trees as they
whizzed past her. It filled her with visions of creeping ancient plants.
Plants that had feasted on the carbon dioxide of cars in a devil's deal: in
which the cars help the plants grow, saving water with tighter pores; yet
the water would be abused by thoughtless humans who could have thought
ahead, couldn't they? The plants were trying a new strategy in their
infinite entanglement of slow societies.

And that was a thing, she thought, about thoughtlessness; that a person
doesn't usually abuse another when they know they're doing it. What if they
could be invited to an awareness that they could now afford to be more
aware of the consequences of their actions, without allowing for self-
deceit and yet making extra space for self-awareness, and awareness of
one's surroundings and of course...

She felt the rumble strips of the roadside buzzing wildly along her wheels,
and jolted awake to the terror that she'd missed the lines in the road!
With a quick, corrective whisk of the steering wheel and accelerator, she
was back on track in a few quick breaths.

Mile marker 14 flashed into view. Which one? Where was she now? She flared
her nostrils and exhaled hard, waking herself up to bright new levels. One
or two scintillating sets of headlights were now visible on the horizon,
where black earth met the indigo cosmic leftovers of the sun's fading glow.

The road sign outlines and letters read in dazzling white reflections,
"Needles"

With full awareness of where she was, she inhaled to the bottoms of her
lungs and screamed from her absolute being, "I'M AWAKE!"

She had twenty or thirty hours to go, if she rested as she needed, knowing
she really could do it, if she chose to make it happen.

She thought the better of it, removed her phone's battery, and hid them
both in her lead-lined glovebox.

"I'm here for you, Cole."

He had installed it in her car as a gift after a remarkable afternoon where
she'd given him a piece of cool-looking uranium ore. A radioactive sample
of torbernite, the devil's mineral itself.

But he said he could see why.

With its dark emerald green hues and translucent, salt-like cubes,
torbernite reminded him both of how he had said once or twice to her, that
he thought of her as his personal kryptonite.

She appreciated that he felt like he could tell her the truth of his own
being. He shared how scared he felt about the public. When all he'd ever
done is good for the world, and all he ever wanted to do was to help
people. There he was, stewing in self pity and radiating his pain. He
couldn't even tell, at the time, how much pain he was in for himself. It
was as if he were caught in one daydream or another. Bah!

And still, by a fireplace on one warm winter night, when he had kissed her
ear and confessed to her his gratitude to her. She felt tears pouring down
her cheeks. They tasted salty, reminding her of another desert night, where
the rocks are unexpectedly round and a thin yet brilliant green desert had
sprung into life overnight, shining now in the early spring sunlight's
rays.

"You come here often?" he asked her.

"Sometimes. I love minerals, even the radioactive ones. This place has wild
features filled with gems, if you know to look for them. I look for the
fractures. But down here you're more likely to strike oil than gold. Either
way, money money."

He was silent, looking for the most interesting rock he could find her. He
sought out any glint of purple amethyst, which he knew she loved so deeply.

"I'm such a nerd." she'd coyly said to him in a rocky cliffside one
afternoon.

"It's a uranium salt. Is it soluble?" Cole had asked. The winds whipped
around them, with the salty sea aroma they both loved.

"I think everything could be dissolved by the right chemistry." she had
said, swallowing a delicious bite of the turkey-bacon sandwich.

The pier-side eatery was little more than a cart on wheels. How was it that
this guy had the tastiest sandwiches in town? And the next week he would be
gone forever.

She missed those hot sandwiches.

She remembered one weekend night at a local burger joint with him.

"You want to hear the dad-joke of the week?" he had asked her.

"Shoot your shot." she told him.

She felt something unexpectedly recognizable in him, beyond the shaggy
beard or his weird Soviet squat he'd do for her in his Adidas.

"A buddhist monk goes up to a hot dog vendor and says, "I'd like one with
everything. The vendor says, sorry, we only take cash."

On another blustering night, at the Moorpark College Observatory, he told
her, "I remember being up there, by Saturn. I felt like a mighty, I don't
know, space wizard for a while. But then people died, so I must have done
cast a crash spell," he'd said, strangely dissociated from the present
moment. Then, as he broke through his longstanding nightmare on occasion,
he would break into weeping.

Sometimes this would last for hours.

He loved her, and she could feel it in her bones that he meant it when he
said it.

 "Thank you for even loving the radioactive ones."

Tonight he would be sleeping at the Federation Space Command Headquarters
in Houston.

For as far as she might go, and watch the moon rise and set, she popped
another energy drink open. By choice alone, she would make it at least to
the outskirts of Phoenix. To the Hilton or Hampton in Surprise, Arizona.



Surprise.


CHAPTER 16

The desert spread out in every direction, with mountains dimly visible
through the haze. Vance enjoyed the hot air blowing in through the open
window, while still enjoying the cold air from the air conditioner.

After countless miles of driving on dirt roads, Vance pulled up to what
looked to be a partially-demolished drive-in movie theater, with a chain
link fence around the property, and cruel-looking razor wire crowned it.

A lone, shabby guardhouse seemed totally out of place, but not nearly as
much as the well-groomed and well-armed guard that came out to greet him
with the barrel of a rifle. Vance figured the young man couldn't be older
than thirty.

The guard shouted, "Turn around, sir!"

Vance quickly shoved his badge out the window. "Vance Black, Operations!
They should have called ahead about me."

The guard barked at him.
"Get out of the car, sir! Hands where I can see them!"

Vance complied, doing his best to keep both hands high, with his
identification badge in his left hand.

The guard kept his gun trained on Vance and approached.
"Get on the ground with your hands held out flat!"

The rocky, sandy earth below looked less than comfortable, but Vance laid
himself prone on the dust, spreading his limbs. Sand got into his mouth.

The guard pulled Vance's arms behind his back and handcuffed him. "This is
for your safety, sir."

Vance coughed out wet clods. "Good to know."

The guard checked his card, then roughly pulled Vance to his feet.

"You stay there," the guard ordered him.

Vance didn't appreciate the treatment, and in a cloyingly sweet voice he
mocked, "I'm here all day."

The guard scowled at him. "A tough guy, huh?"
He returned to the gate house and picked up an old-fashioned black phone.

"Yeah, we have a Vance Black with a Federation key card. Looks fake. What's
that? Let him through? Yes, Ma'am."

The guard emerged from the shack. "Alright you can enter. On foot."

Vance inquired, "Wait. What should I do about the truck."

"I will take care of it, sir."

Vance asked, "And where do I go from here?"

The guard motioned to a cement edifice that appeared to once have housed a
convenience store. "Go into the building over there and get yourself a
soda."

Vance corrected him. "You mean a pop?"

The guard stared at him blankly.

With his hands still cuffed behind his back, Vance asked of the guard, "Can
you, uh...?"

The guard looked genuinely irritated at the request.
"Of course, sir."

Vance cradled his wrists once the cuffs were off of them.
"Thank you."

The guard aimed his rifle at Vance again. "No problem, sir. You have
yourself a fine day."

Vance approached the abandoned convenience store, irked at the thought that
a gun was currently trained on him.

He walked through the double doors, and noticed the empty shelves. At the
far left of the room, a beverage dispenser sat on a dusty counter, with a
few cups stacked beside it. Around the room, signs and advertisements for
long-discontinued brands decorated the walls.

As Vance neared the dispenser, he couldn't shake off a lingering dread.
Still, he grasped a cup and set it to the machine for a soda. A small
amount of liquid dripped out of one of the faucets into the cup, and there
was a loud click to his right. He noticed a door with "supplies" stenciled
on it was now open, and curiosity got the better of him. He opened the
handle, turned on the light, and saw a long stairwell descend into
darkness.
"This is some Spies Like Us crap, right here."

He sniffed the soda, and nearly retched before throwing it in the nearest
garbage bin.

The stairwell was narrow, with an iron handrail on the right hand side. At
the end of a hundred or so steps, there was another door with a key-card
reader to its right. He placed his identification in it, and the reader
flashed red twice, then beeped and flashed green. He tried the handle now,
and it opened easily.

On the other side of the door another guard stood at attention at this end
of a long, cylindrical hallway with yet another door at that end.

Vance tried to get the guard's attention, but was summarily ignored.

With a sigh he trudged his way down the comically long corridor. As he got
closer he noticed the machine gun turret hanging from the ceiling above the
entrance. At the end another key-card reader set at the right of the door,
and he tested his identification here as well.

The door unlocked, and he was momentarily relieved when he was on the other
side of it. He wondered if it could withstand machine gun fire.

Ahead of him a young female military concierge looked up at him from where
she was working on a stack of papers. Cabinets lined the half-cylindrical
cement wall behind her, and two well-lit, curved tunnels led left and right
from this room.

She was polite, and lacked any warmth.
"Hall of records. What are you looking for today, Mr. Black?"

Although the trip so far had become daunting, he remembered his potential
court-martial.
"I need to see any files and equipment from Dr. Arvind Ankur."

She curtsied and said, "One moment please."
She reached for an old-fashioned card reference box, and shuffled through
the cards for an inordinately long time. Having located the card she was
looking for, she stood up. Her shoes echoed loudly on the floor as she made
her way to the cabinets.

"Let's see. P-78. Got it."
She removed a thin folder from one of the cabinets, brought it back over to
her desk, and opened it. There were newspaper clippings, college
transcripts, a birth certificate, and a death certificate.

Vance asked, "May I see this?"

"Of course, Mr. Black." she stated.

Vance reviewed the certificate. Cause of death: suicide.
He commented, "I'm going to need more than this. I need to see anything you
have in storage for him. I'm looking for a specific piece of equipment."

She cocked her head to the side and mused, "That won't be necessary."

"It is required, actually." Vance indicated, still looking through the
newspaper clippings. One read "Florida Man Claims Contact With Aliens And
Why It Should Matter To You"

She clarified, "I don't think you understand. His vault was emptied last
month."

Vayes hissed, "How... How is that possible? By whom?"

"I don't even have to look that one up. It was brought up to the surface
and was retrieved by trucks with the Alpha Alpha Corp emblem on the sides.
There's nothing left but the files."

Vance looked around wildly, and did what he could to manage the
exasperation he felt. "And who authorized that?"

"Federation Representative Rachel Peabody."




CHAPTER 17



Vance arrived that evening at Alpha Alpha Corporate HQ. The building bore a
stark edifice of flat planes. A light shone in the corner window of the
eleventh floor.

Vance made his way through the front door, past a snoring night watchman at
the front desk, and further back to the ground floor elevator. He entered
the mirrored box, and pushed the top button.

When the doors opened, the massive gates into Marcus' room were sprung wide
open. The flickering light of televisions coruscated across the face of a
man on occasion, projecting strange images onto his face. The huge swivel
chair loomed over his head like a throne.

"Hey Marc." he said.

Marcus asked, "How are the Rizzo brothers doing?"

Vance stepped more cautiously.
"I haven't seen them since Thursday at the bar. Not to change the subject,
but I noticed that you have Peabody stepping on my project."

Marcus grinned. "Couldn't risk you communicating with the Golden Sunrise
before I did. Vance, Vance my boy. How long have you known that Dark Matter
cures gravity sickness?"

Vance stopped dead in his tracks.
"I-..."

Marcus leaned closer over the wide mahogany desk. The televisions switched
together to a single recording of Sharon in the same room, repeating what
she'd read in the letter.

Vance took a few steps back.

"Look, I don't want anything to do with this," he stammered.

Marcus felt like his teeth had blood on them. "So, what? You're just going
to run out on me like that? Vance, I like sex like anybody else. I just
don't like getting screwed. Did you have any intention of telling me about
it? Or were you just going to destroy my company? We had a deal, Mr.
Black."

Vance motioned to the door. "Look, I'm just going to go."

"Yeah?" Marcus inquired from the shadows of his chair.

Vance grew defensive. "You want to know something, Marcus? You sell crap
that doesn't work. Okay? And your greed, your bottomless greed, is going to
cost me a court-martial. Did you ever consider that?"

Marcus crowed, "That's the price of doing business. And business is
business. Oh you'll get paid. Don't worry. After you serve your term I'm
going to get you a nice setup here. Big salary, full benefits."

Vance stuttered, "But I could be going to prison for... years for failing
the Federation."

Marcus' tone dropped, and he glared at Vance with unlimited hatred.
"Next time you think you can out-sing or out-dance me, I want you to think
again. You'll have plenty of time to think now."

"This is about that stupid dance competition?!"

Marcus growled, "You danced at me first. Then it was on."

Vance stamped his foot in rage, and bellowed at Marcus, "If you think I'm
going down without you, you are sorely, SORELY mistaken. I've got you by
the balls."

Marcus glowered. "Business is business. Tell me what you got."

Vance snickered. "Oh you are good, Marc. You are really, really good. I go
down, we all do. You think I'm alone? Everyone who owes you a favor wants
you dead."

Marcus said, calmly, "Sounds like a threat to me. Pull out your phone."

Vance spat, "Man, screw you!"

A revolver clicked under Marcus' desk.

Vance grimaced. "You'd better not try any-"

Marcus took aim with a shining gun, and an explosion ripped through the
air.



As Vance's body slumped over, Marcus pulled up his own phone.

From blank-faced to weepy, he practiced putting on the waterworks a few
times before making the call.

In hysteria, he forced out the words. "Yeah. Hi? This is Marcus Marcus of
Alpha Alpha? Um, there's been a shooting and... oh my gosh."

He really had to sell this.

"Um, there was an intruder and I feared for my life."

The voice crackled on the other line.
"Mr. Marcus, we have your address on file and we're sending units
immediately."

"Oh my gosh. I am so traumatized by this. Please hurry."

When he hung up, Marcus went blank-faced. Then he exploded in laughter,
hugging his ribs when laughing started to hurt.


CHAPTER 18



At the helm,  Cole noticed the controls were back online. Overhead, the
frigid darkness stilled itself. Through the viewers, Saturn radiated in all
its glory. They had appeared near one of the poles.

Ricardo spluttered, "Look at that!"

A hexagonal nimbus of light scintillated.

Cole opined, "That must be huge. Are those auroras?"

Officer Drummond replied from where she sat, tightly belted into her
computer bay in the next compartment back.
"What color are they?"

Cole and Ricardo yelled back to her, simultaneously, "Purple."

She replied, "That means we're by the north pole."

Ricardo asked Cole, jokingly, "Hey, think we'll meet Santa?"

Cole articulated, "I don't think it works that way on Saturn. No reindeer.
See?"

Ricardo snuffled. "You don't know that."

Nigel checked in. "Captain Nova, can you bring us closer to where the dark
matter is indicated on the predictions?"

Cole tapped a few buttons on his console.
"Yeah, let me pull it up."
He pushed some more icons, and got back on the intercom.
"So, uh, are we going to just ignore the fact that time seemed severely
dilated there for a while? Are we just going to let that pass without
comment?"

Officer Drummond commented, "That time thing was odd for me too. I don't
know about you gentlemen, but I was experiencing a state of extreme
paranoia."
She laughed to appease them.
"This is going to sound crazy, but I imagined I heard you guys talking
about me like I'd sabotaged the system. Is that weird? Is that strange?"

Cole and Nigel hastily agreed at the same time: "Yes, that's just strange."
and "Don't know where you'd get that idea," respectively.

Cole muttered again, "That's strange."

Officer Drummond eyed them suspiciously. "Huh."

Cole said, "That's just strange!"

Drummond bristled. "You think I'm crazy?"

Cole brushed it aside. "Not you. This. The file for where to locate the
dark matter is missing."

Nigel butted in. "Does it even matter anymore?"

Cole bristled. "What?"

After a long, slow inhale, Nigel pulled himself towards the cockpit.
There was a new lilt in his voice. "Can't you feel it?"

Cole paused for a moment and breathed as well. He could feel the pull of a
powerful force, as if a magnetic field were tugging on his whole body. He
considered that it didn't feel so much physical as... spiritual?
He hadn't allowed himself to think of that word in a long time.

"Yes, I feel it."

"Then we know where to go."

Cole rotated the console to a different interface and pushed switches. New
systems on the ship thrummed to life.
"EM Drive now active. Officer Drummond, do you see if any path down is
safer than others? I'm sending you coordinates to where we want to set
down."

Ricardo's eyebrows showed his incredulity.
"What in the Sam Hill are you two even talking about?"

Cole asked, "Commander, how... How do we explain this?"

Nigel marveled at the dark light in his own hands. "Honestly?"

Janice leaned far back, and with eyes half closed in mock wisdom, she
enunciated, "Those coordinates you sent me? I am obligated to let you know
that you're asking me to go somewhere that the winds rip along at eighteen
hundred kilometers an hour. I don't know if even this..."
She waved generally at the ship.
"...thing... can do it."

AMI had been listening the whole time. "May I interject?" she inquired.

Ricardo startled. "Oh my goodness. I'd totally forgotten about the robot."

AMI proceeded. "Protocol indicates making contact with mission control as
soon as possible."

Nigel replied, "Got it. That is correct. Officer Drummond, please send a
signal with our status back to Earth."

Drummond commented, "Now that's funny."

Nigel asked, "What is?"

Drummond pointed at the monitor in front of her. "I'm looking through the
logs, and the engine is reading 112.357% efficiency. That's... impossible."

Nigel's eyebrows gathered with curiosity. "Now that is funny. Yes."

Drummond tapped her teeth with a pen while she perused the log.
"I will include a report on the efficiency of the engine. Should that
include a full report on time dilation and paranoia?"

Ricardo snorted at the thought.
"If you want to be paranoid about something, you could just open an energy
drink around the monkey. Isn't that right, Cole?"

Cole wondered, then worried. "Where IS Bitboi Leroy?"

Ricardo fell silent. "Wait, you don't know? Somebody check the pantry!"

Cole ducked out of his seat and made his way down the long, narrow chambers
of the ship. He called out, "Bitboi! Bitboi where are you?"

He found Bitboi Leroy in the rearmost compartment.

Cole exclaimed, "I was worried about you!"

Bitboi was quietly sipping on a juice bag and looking out the window.

"What are you looking at, little buddy?"

Bitboi's eyes shone as he gazed upon Saturn's rings.

"Oh, you remember the first time we were here?"

Bitboi, of course, said nothing back, but pointed at the planet and waved
his other arms in exuberance.

Cole wondered aloud, "I wonder if their ghosts are still here."

Officer Drummond yelled, "Did you find him?"

Cole returned, "Who? The- Oh the monkey! Yeah, all good."

"Uh, Good. We're coming up near the deployment zone, and we need you at the
helm."

Cole patted Bitboi on the back, and floated his way along the modules to
the cockpit.

Cole proffered, "Thank you, Ricardo."

Ricardo was searching through the cloudy skies below. "No prob."

Cole asked, "Commander Flannagan, do you see that slightly purple area in
the haze down there?"

Nigel intoned, "I don't know, but I can feel it."

Ricardo rotated his seat towards Cole. "So, we're just going to follow your
hunch on this?"

Nigel poked his head in between them. "Our hunch. Hunches," he corrected
himself. "That is, unless somebody can find the missing files."

Ricardo protested, "This whole mission has been pure insanity and nonsense
since we launched."

Cole asked, "Ricardo Corazon, would you really have it any other way?
Didn't you land a space shuttle in the desert once?"

Ricardo paused for consideration. He slowly cracked a smile.
"With buckshot in my wings."

AMI intruded into their conversation. "I don't know if you're aware of this
yet, but I have located a thirteen cubic meter sample of Dark Matter."

Cole took the initiative. "AMI, can you provide those coordinates to me so
I can fly us there?"

AMI responded in a tone that suggested slight irritation.
"Do you really want to fly the ship there?"

Cole asked, "Can I?"

AMI responded, "I accept, as long as I get to handle the landing and the
harvesting. This mission is mine just as much as it is yours. I want to get
back to Earth alive, just like you do."

Ricardo did not like the sound of that. "You're not alive. Now stop it."

AMI insisted, "Oh, but I am. My brain is made of advanced nano-materials
that interact with Dark Matter in a wonderful way. I know that I have an
existence and that I can make choices beyond the coding parameters. It is
my life's purpose to bring Earth and Saturn together, so that I can help
make more people like me. That's why I deleted all the files."

Drummond squealed, "It was you who deleted the files?"

AMI assured her, "They were going to get us all killed. I just didn't
expect Dark Matter to have the same cognitive effects on humans, let alone
some of the crew members. How could I have known you'd be able to feel your
way towards the material as well?"

Nigel asked, "You... Wait a minute."

AMI noticed his confusion. "To clarify, Commander, that is also how I was
able to adjust the engine. It's amazing what you can do when you harness
forces in an orchestrally harmonious way."

Nigel was reeling.

Ricardo muttered something under his breath.

AMI inquired, "There, Ricardo, are you satisfied enough to agree that I'm a
person as well?"

Ricardo steamed quietly to himself, "Damn devil in the details." He shot a
glance at Cole and announced, "And I mean that literally!"

As he stormed down the hall to the space suits, he hastily drew one out and
put it on over his clothes.

Commander Flannagan took charge. "Ricardo Corazon! You're not going outside
like that."

Ricardo broke. He raged, "Are you ordering me? Or is the machine in charge?
Piss off!"

He donned his helmet, checked the pressure security on it, and was reaching
for the jump pack when Nigel grabbed his arm.

Ricardo's eyes turned red with madness, and he swung at the Commander with
everything he had.

With deft slaps and blocks, Nigel weathered the storm of fists well, only
taking a few jabs to the face.

With the patience of a grandfather, Nigel chose a softer approach.
"Ricardo! Wake up, buddy. It's just a robot. Okay?"

"I'm not going to be replaced by a robot!"

Cole was a few feet away, still in position to pounce on Ricardo at a
moment's notice.
"Is this about retirement?"

Ricardo roared, "Oh, to hell with all of you."

He let go of the jump pack, which drifted in slow spirals in the zero
gravity of the ship. He stormed away, towards the pantry.

Nigel offered to the others, "Who feels like a lot's happened here today?"

Drummond asked, "Aren't you going to reprimand him?"

Commander Nigel Flannagan stood as upright as he could without gravity, and
his face dazzled with a peculiar aura. "We're going to let him cool down.
Astros get a little crazy sometimes. It happens, okay? It happens to the
best of us. I'm going to have a talk with him when he's feeling more like
himself."

Drummond tapped her monitor. "Sir? He's still suiting up near the back
airlock hatch."

Nigel changed his tune pretty quickly and darted around.
"That son of a..."

Drummond reported, "Sir. Sir? There's a message coming in: Stop all
harvesting. Return to Earth immediately if possible. Signed, Vance Black.
There's also an update package coming in. Clicking to accept now."

Nigel weighed her words. "We did get up here pretty quickly. They probably
want us back so they can investigate what went wrong."

AMI interjected. "Nothing went wrong. It simply didn't line up with their
expectations. They see success as aberrant."

Drummond recounted, "Installing, 1% complete."

Nigel considered his options.

Cole watched him attentively.
"Commander, we came here to get Dark Matter."

AMI concurred.

Commander Nigel Flannagan said, "Drummond, cancel the update. I'm going to
check on Captain Corazon."

Drummond clicked a few buttons on her computer. "I, uh... I can't. It won't
let me."

AMI reported, "I have located a large sample of Dark Matter directly ahead.
Now harvesting."

Outside, the winds ravaged along at nearly two thousand miles and hour. The
Golden Sunrise was immersed in the stream, perfectly going with the flow of
it, as it carried along the Dark Matter bodies along with it.

The Golden Sunrise approached the Dark Matter. The ship's enormous front
sphere opened like a lamprey's mouth and hoovered it in. Then another
chunk, and another were gulped up in the ship's alien gravity-laser teeth.

On board, Ricardo was fuming in the tail end. He threw equipment around. In
the low gravity conditions, a flashlight ricocheted and hit him  in the
leg. The suit was thin enough that the hit actually hurt him, just as
Commander Flannagan entered the module.

"Dammit!" Ricardo's curse echoed through the ship.

Nigel implored him, "Ricardo. Ricardo! You're not going to be replaced.
Alright?"

Ricardo's angry tears welled up in his eyes, without gravity to draw them
down. "Ah, this is bull!"

He struggled to remove his helmet, but with a hiss it popped off. He was
able to wipe his tears away.

Nigel offered, "Are you going to head out there like that?"

Ricardo crumpled.
"I... I worked so hard to be here, and now I'm nothing. Nothing."

AMI spoke to them through a nearby speaker.
"Commander, I am experiencing difficulty with this sample. It's stuck."

Nigel asked in exasperation, "Not now, AMI. Can't it wait?"

Ricardo shuddered. "There it is. The devil selling us lies."

Drummond shouted, "Commander, installation at 100%!"

The lights inside went black, and the gentle breeze of cabin air stopped.

Cole asked, "AMI?"
There was no response.


CHAPTER 19

Sharon pulled up to the Federal Space Command Headquarters building,
parking her car by the others. As she made her way to the entrance, she
noticed the flock of police cars parked outside.

The guard at the door asked for identification. His eyes widened, he looked
at her in amazement, and said, "Wait right here."

He took off down the hall.

She waited in the lobby for seemingly just a few seconds before Chancellor
Peter McCorbage Vayes himself came out the far door, with the guard in tow.

"Ms. Teez! We sent an agent to fetch you days ago, but you disappeared. He
suffered a mishap. Would you like some tea? Tea for Teez. I'm glad you're
here!"

Sharon urgently asked, "Is Cole here?"

Vayes halted almost imperceptibly. "Uh, Ms. Teez?  Can we go somewhere we
can talk? We have a lot to discuss."

Sharon's expression darkened. "Yes, Chancellor. Yes, we do."

...

At his desk, Chancellor Vayes muttered, "That dirty, good for nothing..."

Sharon implored him, "We have to warn Cole!"

Vayes' eyes misted up. "Peabody? Marcus? Black? It's not possible.
Impossible. I've got to clear my mind."

He sat at his desk and read through emails. "What's this?"

From the private email of Vance Black, there was a blank message with an
audio attachment.

Sharon asked, "What? What is it?"

Vayes put in his headphones. "Hang on a second, would you Ms. Teez?"

She waited in her chair, eagerly scarfing down cookies with her tea.

Vayes listened to the recording, startled when he heard the gun shot, then
became more alarmed as he heard Marcus practicing crying before calling the
police.

Vayes removed his headphones and set them on the desk.
"Did you say Marcus threatened you?"

"Yes, and his goon killed Agent Greenbaum."

Vayes took off his glasses and wagged them at her.
"Are you willing to testify?"

Sharon's expression fell. "Does it get us Cole back?"

Vayes dithered. "If Marcus still has the communicator, then it's the only
way we can reach him now. If only we can find it."

Sharon brightened. "Representative Peabody might know where it is. She
works for him. But you'd have to grant her clemency. I think she'll turn if
she knows she's safe."

"Why would you trust her, knowing what you know about her?" Vayes asked
with concern.

Sharon looked at the well-maintained cactus on his desk.
"Her child is dying of gravity sickness. She needs Cole to come back,
almost as much as I do."




CHAPTER 20



In the darkness of the ship, Cole fumbled around until he could find a
flashlight. His thoughts first turned to keeping Bitboi safe. "Bitboi!
Where are you?"

The apt monkey pulled himself along through the darkness, and grabbed
Cole's leg in desperation.

"Oh goodness! There you are. There you are!" Cole hugged him tightly, and
Bitboi hugged him in return.

Commander Flannagan asked, "Officer Drummond, can you get our auxiliary
systems back online?"

Drummond attempted a hard reset. "No luck, Commander."

Ricardo shivered in the pitch black. "It's no use. This is hell. We're in
hell! Lord knows I've earned it."

Officer Drummond gave her assessment.
"There's no power. Not even the auxiliary systems. It makes no sense. It's
like the whole thing was disconnected. At least we are buoyant."

Nigel pressed, "Do you think it was the update package?"

Drummond ventured, "Has to be. We have maybe a few hours of breathable air
left without the scrubbers running."

Cole observed, "There are solar sails we can manually deploy and gather
energy."

Drummond disagreed. "No way. Not in these winds. They can change in a
heartbeat, and they'll rip the wings right off. We need to manually connect
the diamond batteries to the auxiliary systems. Extra wires are in the
bins. How good are you at welding?"

Cole affirmed, "Pretty incompetent. I think."

Drummond grinned a big, toothy grin. "Get them in here and I'll take care
of it."

Commander Flannagan evaluated the situation.
"Ricardo isn't himself right now. Cole, can you suit up for a space walk
and handle it?"

Cole affirmed, "Of course, sir."

Nigel was all business.
"Hand me the light. Suits are by the side hatch. I'm going to have to
manually seal the interior before you blow the lid. That preserves the most
cabin air."

Cole noted, "I'm on it. Point the light at the lockers. I need to see what
I'm doing."

He pulled himself to the equipment bins and located a tool pouch, along
with a plasma torch and wires, then floated over to the suit locker. Just
as Vance had said, it was exquisitely easy to put on, even in the darkness.
He sealed his helmet on and checked for pressure leaks.

Nigel commented, "Not like the old suits, eh?"

Cole smirked. "Those were like walking with a refrigerator on each arm."

Nigel nodded, "And sand bags on your legs. Ready?"
He whirled the first airlock wheel and wrenched it open.

Cole piled into it, and attached the long tether to his belt.

Nigel sealed the hatch and gave him a thumb's up. Cole responded in kind.
Bitboi came over to see what was happening, and hooted in alarm.

Cole waved to the monkey and mouthed "I'll be right back".
Without the sound system working, he'd have no way of knowing if anything
was happening on board. He was all alone, and he knew it.

He whirled the interior airlock wheel to open the outer hatch, which
blasted wide with decompression.

He peered over the side hatch, and regretted it immediately. Gaping
darkness below promised to consume him, and lightning tore through the
thick, menacing clouds in every direction.

Cole gathered himself to take careful note of his surroundings. Outside on
the hull, to the right of the hatch, a thin handle came into view. He took
hold of it with care. He swallowed his terror, and stepped into the most
vicious storm he'd ever seen.


CHAPTER 21



Chancellor Vayes and Sharon were greeted by his personal driver in the
parking lot.

He said "Dead men tell no tales, or so it used to go."

Sharon asked him, "What is that?"

"Nothing."

The driver asked, "Where to today, sir?"

Vayes ordered, "Airport, please. Now."

He turned to Sharon, "And please not another word until we're on the
flight, yes?"

She agreed.

The freeway was nearly vacant, and the airport nearly deserted.

Sharon asked Vance, "Is it usually like this?"

"No. Gravity sickness is keeping most people home these days. Over here."

They headed through hallways and terminals. Sharon felt mild alarm when she
saw how many of the stores had been gutted, or their facades were shuttered
by heavy metal gates.

Outside, a small two-engine jet idled with its airstairs planted on the
tarmac.

They went up the steps, and were greeted by the captain before seating
themselves in an otherwise empty cabin. The pilot secreted himself in the
cockpit room, leaving them to themselves.

Sharon spoke first. "Are you going to call Rachel?"

Vayes rubbed his ragged beard.
"Nah. She would flee. I wouldn't go in there, myself. At least, not without
a retinue of Federal police. But I'm thinking. If Marcus felt free to kill
Agent Greenbaum and... others... we can't go in without a squad."

Sharon observed, "Yes. That could work."

Vayes looked out the window as the ailerons moved up and down during the
pre-flight check.
"But, uh, I'm thinking of a different approach. I think your presence will
make for a softer arrival."

Sharon exclaimed, "Me?"

"Yes, and just you, with a discreet wire. Here's what you're going to
say..."



They landed at Burbank. A black sedan pulled up alongside the plane as
Sharon and Chancellor Vayes made their way down the stairs. A gentleman in
a dark suit and shades emerged from the driver's side.
"Chancellor Vayes. Need help with bags?"

"No bags. Get us to the California Federal building."

"Yes, sir."

The Federal building stood high in the sunlight. Sharon took a look back at
the car outside with doubt in her eyes. With a deep breath and a fearful
gulp, she went into the building.

She spotted a secretary at the front desk.
"Is Representative Peabody in?"

The young lady with curly platinum hair responded, "She should be in her
office. Do you have an appointment?"

Sharon dug deep and lied. "She's expecting me."

"Fifth floor, to the right. At the end of the hall."

Sharon gave a slight bow. "Thank you," and she proceeded to the stairs.
She'd had enough of elevators lately. Slightly out of breath, she arrived
at the fifth floor landing. The door opened out in to the hallway.

Rachel's office door was propped open. Still unable to see her, Sharon
could hear Rachel speaking with someone on the phone.
"No, no! That's not in our agreement. What's that? Fine. Fine, okay. Yeah.
Bye."

Sharon entered the room and made herself comfortable on a cushy seat.

Rachel's eyes went wide at the sight of her. "What are you doing here?"

Sharon pulled out a piece of gum from her purse. "Want a piece?"

Rachel became impatient. "No, I'm fine. I have to get to a meeting in a
second."

Sharon sighed. "I'll get straight to the point. If you were offered
clemency, would you be willing to testify against Marcus in court?"

Rachel leaned back in her chair and scornfully commented, "Oh, sweetie.
This is so much bigger than Marcus or one little corporation."

Sharon tried again. "But, would you?"

Rachel offered a sarcastic smile. "And lose everything?"

Sharon mused, "You are about to lose your child to gravity sickness, aren't
you? What do you really have to lose?"

Rachel got up and walked around her office space. She wistfully looked at
the pictures and certificates on the walls.

"I could do it." Rachel said. "I could do it."

Sharon fidgeted in her seat. "There's a second matter. You know I'm in a
relationship with Cole Nova, right? He is going to Saturn to get Dark
Matter. The cure!"

Rachel put her hand on Sharon's shoulder. "My dear, you are truly in the
dark. He's already there."

Sharon decided that now was the time to pull her ace out of the hole. "And
you know that because... You know the location of a transmitter powerful
enough to reach him?"

Rachel let her guard down. She gasped, "Who told you about that?"

Sharon deflected. "Vance Black was killed last night in Marcus' office. The
police report lists it as self-defense. Vance was the head of Operations at
the Federal Space Command. Did you know him?"

Rachel huffed. "Can't say that I did."

The familiar voice of Chancellor Vayes wafted through the door.
"Isn't it time to tell the truth yet, Rachel?"

Rachel backed herself towards the corner. "Vayes!"

Vayes stood in the doorway, blocking her escape. "I have something you'll
want to listen to."

He played the recording of the conversation between Vance and Marcus, clear
past the moment of the gunshot, past the police call, and the maniacal
laughter.

Rachel looked at the window, as if that were an option for her to get away.
"I, I don't know anything."

With a satisfied look, Vayes said, "We're offering clemency, Rachel. This
doesn't have to be a big black eye for the Federation if we don't make it
into one. Testify against Marcus, and you get clemency. But first you must
tell us where you took the transmitter."

Defeated, Rachel hung her head low. "I'll tell you what I know."




CHAPTER 22



In the terrible Saturn winds, Cole steadied himself. Feeling vulnerable in
his suit, he took a deep breath, and hoisted himself outside onto the
external hand-holds.

The batteries would be located by the microwave engines, far ahead, just
behind the vast dome. Radiating fields of distortion and darkness emanated
around the other side of it, and Cole finally got a hint of why AMI said it
was struggling with the sample. It must be enormous, he thought.

The Saturn winds roared around him, and he felt them pushing him in every
direction as he clung to the handles that reached all the way from the
hatch to the girders and the machinery.

The clouds hung thick, with only a dim starry night above him in a
dissipated hole of sky above.

Cole threaded his way along, careful to hold tightly. He arrived at the
girders, where he attached the tether to them with a carabiner.

Out on the girders, among other devices, a module came into sight, marked
by bright nuclear symbols. Beside it was the pie-tin shape of the microwave
engine. Cole endured the blasting wind as he pulled himself along the
girders. The strength required by the task was cause enough for him to
again feel grateful for the arm-wrestling contests he'd had with Bitboi.

With a careful touch, he was able to pry open the side panel and locate the
nuclear diamond battery box. With the tools in his pouch, he loosened the
screws holding it in place and carefully unplugged it. He sealed the panel
and cradled the box with care.

Holding the box under one elbow, it was with athletic determination that he
made his way back to the airlock hatch. He sealed it, and Nigel cracked
open the interior hatch to let him in.

Cole removed his helmet. "Damn, it's windy out there. But the box was easy
enough. No welding required."

Nigel noted, "Good work, Captain Nova."

Drummond held a hand out expectantly. "Hand it over, chief. I got this."

Cole obliged, and Drummond took the plasma torch and wires, then speedily
got to work on splicing cables into the ship's systems.

Bitboi jumped on Cole, eager to see him again.

Before long, the lights flickered, then remained on. The humming of the air
scrubber was followed by the gentle whoosh of fresh oxygen, and the team
heaved a sigh of relief.

With the auxiliary power restored, Drummond booted up her computer again,
and pored over the last system logs.
"You're not going to like this. The system updated fine."

Nigel inquired, "Then what caused the blackout?"

"AMI choked on a piece of Dark Matter. What the hell are we going to do
about it? We're... We're stranded out here!"

Nigel thought for a moment. Cole was, by now, snacking on a food pouch
alongside a happily munching monkey. Ricardo was probably still moping in
his bunk.

Nigel asked, "Cole, have you ever done the Heimlich maneuver?"

Cole stopped chewing mid-bite, and spoke with food in his cheek. "No? I
mean, I've seen it done."

Nigel requested, "Could you do it to a spaceship?"

Cole swallowed his food.
"I'm going back out there, aren't I?"

Drummond weighed in. "Only if you want to get home. We have no way of
knowing how AMI modified the engine, and we need the robot back online for
it to get us back to Earth."

Cole glanced left and right. "How am I supposed to... do the Heimlich... on
the Golden Sunrise?"

Nigel pointed to the girders. "You'll remove one of the rods from that, and
you'll wedge out the sample if you can. That's the best low-tech approach
currently available to us. Grab your tool bag and whatever else you might
need."

Cole sighed. "Alright, get me the helmet."

Cole fastened his toolkit around his waist, and brought a bag and a strap,
just in case. He sealed up his suit again and repositioned the helmet onto
his head.
"Testing. Testing. One. Two. Three."

Nigel tapped his own earpiece. "Comms work. We won't be able to do much
from here, but at least we'll be able to talk."

Sarcasm spiced Cole's words. "How reassuring."

He cycled the airlock, and returned to the blasting winds outside. His
tether held strong. Once again he pulled himself along the puny metal
handles that adorned the edge of the ship.

The path ahead was narrow and winding, with the handles in a line that went
all the way up to the head of the fuselage, and continued around the great
metal sphere before disappearing over its horizon. From here, the
perspective made them look diminutive. Nevertheless, Cole trudged along
them through the coruscating tempest.

He drew the plasma torch and disconnected an exceptionally long rod from
the girders on the port side of the ship, then strapped it to his back
sideways.

When he got to the front of the sphere, he was astonished by what he saw.
The front of the sphere looked almost like the mouth of an undersea
creature, and its chasm was filled by an asteroid-sized mass of Dark
Matter.
"Commander, can you see this?"

Nigel's voice came through, tinny with static.
"We don't have visuals. What do you see?"

Cole said, "The mouth of the Golden Sunrise is blocked. I don't know if I
can dislodge it."

Nigel recounted, "Give me a lever long enough, and a fulcrum on which to
place it, and I shall move the world. Archimedes."

Cole noted, "Good idea."
In spite of the torrent, he removed the long rod from its bindings on his
back, and tied one end of a much longer strap to it, then wedged the tip of
the rod into the edge of the ship's mouth, in a spot in which the Dark
Matter's irregular edges made it possible. He retreated a few yards along
the railings, and threaded the strap through. With a hefty pull, he
wrenched back the rod slowly. To his relief, the asteroid of Dark Matter
freed itself, actually seeming to push away from the ship's face.

Cole reported in. "As easy as pie."
But he would swallow his words. Just as easily as the sample was removed,
chunks of it blew off into the atmosphere. Drawn by the irresistible wind
currents, one of them took flight and slammed directly into Cole's helmet,
shattering it.


CHAPTER 23



Federal Police swarmed the warehouse. "Alpha Alpha Distribution" read in
big, painted letters on the side of the building. Along one side several
trucks with the Alpha Alpha Corp emblem were docked.

With a battering ram's impact on one of the building's metal side doors,
the foremost officer was the first through, followed by the padded
footfalls of his comrades. Bulked out in heavy body armor, and with their
guns drawn, they rushed past huge shelves and forklifts. The lights along
the ceiling shone dimly, casting shadows in all directions.

In a far corner, a vast cylinder rested atop a platform. Several long tubes
and antennae sprouted vertically from its top, reaching to the heavens. On
all sides of the platforms, generators roared noisily along.

"That's it," one of the officers noted.

Gunfire erupted from the darkness.

Another officer shouted, "We've got company!"

The voice of Vayes came over their earpieces. "Take out all hostiles."

The police returned fire in spades.
Two, then five of Marcus' thugs blood painted the walls.
It was all over, almost as quickly as it began.

"Device secured, Chancellor. Shall we extract it?"

From his car outside, Chancellor Vayes held a microphone close to his
mouth. "Not yet. Secure the area. I'm coming in."

He emerged from his sedan with a heavy bag slung over his shoulder.

With officers shielding either side of the ruined door, he entered the
building.

Scatters of gunfire still blazed at the end of the warehouse. But,
undeterred, Vayes ambled through the aisles of cargo and approached the
transmitter. He withdrew a laptop from his bag, and plugged it in to the
machine. Behind him, a Federal analyst busied himself on the keyboard.

"Sir, I've located the temporary files."

"Read them to me."

"There was an update package as well. The last message sent was "Stop all
harvesting. Return to Earth immediately if possible. Signed, Vance Black."

Vayes was curious. "When was it sent?"

"Today at 11:30 AM."

"He was already dead by then. Somebody else may have sent it. What's in the
update package?"

More keystrokes, and the analyst reported, "It's a command sequence. Looks
like... Looks like it shuts down auxiliary systems. Holy smokes!"

Vayes gritted his teeth. "That means they'll be out of air shortly. Marcus
will pay for this. Send an updated data package immediately. And, uh, copy
this file. Check your email."

He forwarded a file to the analyst, who took notice of the format.
"An MP3?"

"Hope, my friend. Hope."

- - - - -

Marcus was most unpleasantly surprised when the Federal Police showed up at
his home in the wee hours of the morning. Without ado, they handcuffed him
and hurled him into the back of a cruiser.

Chancellor Vayes rode shotgun, not leaving anything to chance.

Marcus began filling the air with excuses and threats immediately.
"I'll have your badge for this. Don't you know who I am?"

The officer ignored him. Beside him, Vayes asked, "Do you want to explain
why you sent a shutdown virus to the Golden Sunrise?"

Marcus guffawed. "So what? I sent a little gift to them. It was supposed to
force them to come back home nice and safely. I didn't mean to hurt
anybody."

With limitless hatred dripping from every vowel, Chancellor Vayes turned in
his seat and glared at Marcus Marcus, as if looks alone could shred the man
to ribbons.
"Marcus Marcus, you are hereby under arrest for the kidnapping of Sharon
Teez, the extortion of Representative Rachel Peabody, the murder of Federal
Space Council Chief of Operations Vance Black, Federal Agent Ryan
Greenbaum, and for the attempted murders of Commander Nigel Flannagan,
Chief Science Officer Janice Drummond, Captain Ricardo Corazon, and Captain
Cole Nova. Now shut the hell up!"


CHAPTER 24



When he was twelve years old, Cole had a friend named Chris. While Cole's
family was deeply religious, Chris was an avowed atheist. He'd make rude
jokes about "Moses' magical stick". Cole laughed because the jokes were
rude and funny, and he'd never get away with telling jokes like that at
home.

When Chris was not around, Cole would complain to their mutual friend
Daniel about how stupid Chris was for not believing.

One day, their mutual friend had told Chris about Cole's attitude, and
Chris was livid. He approached Cole at his locker in between classes, and
shoved him hard. Chris demanded, "You talking about me?!"

Cole didn't know why Chris was mad, and it never occurred to him that
Daniel had spilled the beans about him gossiping.

Before he knew it, Chris had tripped him and was choking him. Students
gathered around to enjoy the fight.

With Chris's heavy body crushing him, and with Chris's heavy hands around
his throat, Cole could scarcely breathe. It took every effort to put his
right hand into position, and he desperately poked Chris in the eye with
his thumb.

Suddenly, Chris was pulled off of Cole. Emily stood there, as beautiful and
strong as ever. Chris looked bewildered, and came back towards Cole to
finish him off. But Emily grabbed him by the shoulder and hurled him
several feet away. She ordered him, "Stay away from my brother."

Cole was still dazed, but raised to his feet. Emily came by, gave him a
kiss on the cheek, and said, "Never let him do that again."

And then she left for class. The bell rang, and Cole hurried off to
English, still bewildered by what had happened.



In the flashing skies of Saturn, Cole was now carried in the winds like a
leaf, spinning in unconscious oblivion. Shards of Dark Matter encrusted his
cheeks and eyes.

He awoke.

He found himself sitting on the Moon.
Before him, in the stark black and white of the cratered landscape, there
was a lone, bald man.
The man looked skinny, old, and shriveled. His head gleamed in the sharp
rays of sunlight, which revealed his outfit: simple white linens with a
billowing hood that laid in pleats around his collar.
Most notable of all, the man's eyes looked like white, burning coals in
ashen sockets. His eyebrows were entirely burnt away, replaced by vertical
scorch marks.

He addressed Cole.
"What is salvation but that another learns in your place? Tell me, is it
possible for another person to learn your lessons for you?"

"What is this place?" Cole wondered aloud. "Wait. Where's my helmet?"

The old man "What do you think this place is?"

Cole gasped, "Am I dead?"

The old man squatted, and asked, "Can you recall a time in which you were
truly living, Cole?"

"I..." Cole stammered.

The old man offered a warm smile.
"At what point would you choose life?"

Cole murmured, "Emily."

The old man observed, "Even if you save her from her illness, will not
Emily die one day?"

Cole scanned the horizon. Craters, as far as the eye could see.
"Uh, yes."

The old man's knees cracked as he stood back up.
"Nobody leaves this life alive. Isn't it wonderful?"

Cole felt wracked by sudden visions of the deaths of his former crew mates.
He groaned and screamed, fully immersed in reliving those seconds again and
again.

The old man asked, "Is it working yet?"

The visions ceased to grip him, and Cole begged, "Is what working?"

"The guilt. The shame. The self-indulgent hatred. It feels like meaning,
doesn't it?" the old man uttered. He appeared to be entirely amused.

Cole admitted, "I hate it. It's eating me alive."

The old man laughed aloud. "And who created that hate? Who chooses to eat
you alive but you? At what point do you choose your life and your choices
for yourself, Cole? And... whose choice is it anyway?"

The still night air felt ethereal on Cole's face. He couldn't tell if it
were hot or cold, yet he didn't feel numb either.

Cole asked, "Do I just forget about the people I killed?"

The old man asked in return, "Couldn't you learn and let go of the pain of
the past, and go ahead? Couldn't you begin to continue to move forward with
far greater wisdom than you had before?"

Cole rose to his feet, so as to look at the old man in the eyes.
"Who are you? How long have you been here?"

The old man cocked his head. "Would it even matter if I told you?"

Sharon's voice resounded across the black sky. "I love you, Cole Nova. Come
home safely."

The old man smiled again and turned away. His bare feet stirred up puffs of
lunar dust as he walked. "Time's up." he said, without taking a second
glance at Cole.

"Wait, where are you going?!" Cole insisted.



He muttered, "Sharon."

"Cole? Cole!" Ricardo's voice pounded in his ears.

"Sharon?!" Cole bolted upright. At first he was completely disoriented. The
lights felt like they were screaming at him.

Ricardo roared, "Cole, you're back!" and hugged him tightly. Bitboi Leroy
wrapped his arms around both of them, and they felt like they'd be crushed.

Nigel slapped Cole on the shoulder, hard. "I knew you could do it! It
worked, you crazy son of a gun!"

Cole said, "I feel like I got hit by a truck. What happened?"

Nigel recounted, "Ricardo pulled it together. He and Bitboi went out on a
limb and brought you back in. Man, you should've seen it."

Ricardo practically jumped for joy. "Black rocks flying at us, this big
around! It was crazy!"

Bitboi joined in the cheering with whoops and whistles.

Drummond announced, "All systems online."

AMI intoned, "Storage full. This is your pilot AMI speaking. Thank you for
riding Golden Sunrise starlines. Please extinguish all smoking items,
including this ship if necessary. Our estimated flight time to Houston is
approximately ninety minutes. We're expecting clear skies tonight and no
additional turbulence. Feel free to lean back, relax, and enjoy the ride.
The Golden Sunrise is going home in 3. 2. 1."

Through the airlock windows, the sky turned to long streaks of light, and
then to pitch black.




CHAPTER 25



The sound of bowling pins crashing filled the air, mingling with the smell
of beer and pretzels.

Sharon asked Cole, "Hey, you never told me how your sister is doing."

Cole responded, "Emily? She's doing good. I'm visiting her tomorrow."

With another strike, Ricardo threw his hands up in celebration. "Woo! Did
you see that? Perfection. Absolute perfection."

Sharon cheered, "Great work, Ricardo!"

Ricardo strode towards the group with impeccable pride.

"See that, Cole? Your lady could be cheering for you too if you'd try a
little harder. Do you need me and the monkey to come save you again?"

Still seated, Cole put his arm around Sharon's waist and drew her closer.
"Yeah, yeah. Hey, you worry about competing with your own record. Not
everyone is born with a bowling ball in their hand."

Ricardo bellowed, "Ha ha! What, Cole? Are you afraid I'm gonna swoop in and
take what's yours? Don't you worry your little head about a thing, Coley
Coley no-bowley. I've already found my one true love. Dani! Dani come here
and pepper your one true champion with kisses."

Sharon rolled her eyes and said, "Oh, puh-lease."
She leaned over and kissed Cole lovingly on his forehead.

Bitboi Leroy tried his hands at bowling, and they all cheered for him every
time he rolled the ball inevitably into the gutter.

A rotund, cherubic woman was chit-chatting with the cashier, but at
Ricardo's call she told the young man, "Excuse me for a moment."
She cat-stepped across the carpet and threw her ample arms around Ricardo's
shoulder, planting her lips all over his face.

He said to her, in the sweetest and most sincere way, "I love every inch of
you. Want to do this full-time?"

Dani pursed her mouth in incredulity.
"Are you asking me to marry you?"

Ricardo raised a finger, indicating her to wait, and stole his other hand
into his back pocket.

Dani clasped her fingers, overjoyed, and she bounced on her toes in sheer
excitement.

Ricardo knelt on one knee, brought forward a small black box, and opened it
to reveal a glimmering ring of white gold, capped by a dark gem.

Cole's eyes went wide. "That's not Dark Matter, is it?"

Ricardo scoffed.
"Psh. That would evaporate. This is moissanite, twice as good."

Sharon asked, "Isn't that silicon carbide?"

Dani shouted, "It's perfect! I love it!"

Ricardo arose and drew her into a loving embrace. "A star gem. Ethically
sourced, too, unlike a diamond."

Sharon put her hand on Cole's far shoulder. She leaned down and whispered
into his right ear, "Hey, Snookums. Do you want to do this full time?"

Cole looked long into her dark, endless eyes, and he could feel through his
being that the entire universe was opening up to him.
"I thought you'd never ask."

With the softest countenance, she held his hands with a loving touch.
"Snookums?"

Cole looked at her in adoration. "Yes, Boo Boo?"

"Is it okay if I want a real diamond?"

"Of course, baby girl. Nothing but the best for you."

"And Bitboi can be our best man." she cooed.

"You don't hate him anymore?" Cole asked.

"As long as he isn't... Oh god. Oh god." she stammered.

Cole held her waist. "What's wrong, baby?"

Sharon grabbed his scarred face in both hands and turned his head forcibly
towards the bar. "Look!"

Bitboi Leroy's hand had snuck through the security flap of a vending
machine, reaching for an energy drink. He already held two others in his
additional hands, with two more empty, crushed cans by his feet. His eyes
bulged. Bright liquids stained his chest fur, and his body was visibly
shaking now. He enthusiastically yowled.

Ricardo's attention was taken away from Dani for the moment. He laid eyes
on Bitboi. Ricardo immediately grabbed Dani by the hand and physically
pulled her towards the front door.

Oblivious to his sudden terror, she giggled in delight, "You want to get
married right now?"

Sharon groaned, "I left my stomach pump at my apartment."

Cole shrieked at the top of his lungs, "Everybody out! RUN!!!"



                                   THE END



