















DARK MATTER


Max Bonnett









©2023 Mint Antigravity





















Epilogue……………………………………………….………II

Chapter 1………………………………………………………Impact

Chapter 2………………………………………………………A Thousand Thrills

Chapter 3………………………………………………………Brunch With Oil on the Side

Chapter 4……………………………………………………….A Call to Action

Chapter 5……………………………………………………….It’s just Business

Chapter 6……………………………………………………….Ricky The Chauffeur

Chapter 7……………………………………………………….Pets With Benefits

Chapter 8……………………………………………………….Flying First Class

Chapter 9……………………………………………………….Handshakes and Hostility

Chapter 10………………………………………………………A Cure For What Ails You

Chapter 11……………………………………………………….5 Star Rooms

Chapter 12………………………………………………………An Urgent Matter

Chapter 13………………………………………………………Tech and Philosophy

Chapter 14……………………………………………………….Ryan Who?

Chapter 15………………………………………………………Oh! That Ryan.

Chapter 16………………………………………………………Trolling Agent Ryan

Chapter 17……………………………………………………….No Imagination

Chapter 18………………………………………………………Which Cole are We Getting Up There?

Chapter 19………………………………………………………The Closet

Chapter 20……………………………………………………….The Crew You’ve been Waiting For

Chapter 21………………………………………………………Do We Understand Each Other?

Chapter 22……………………………………………………….Demons Don’t Sleep

Chapter 23………………………...……………………………..Blastoff and A 6th Crew Member

Chapter 24……………………………………………………….The Pier

Chapter 25………………………………………………………..Are You Seeing This?

Chapter 26………………………………………………………..Further Down the Rabbit Hole

Chapter 27………………………………………………………..Dark Matter’s Effect on Dark Matters

Chapter 28………………………………………………………..Hard Bargain

Chapter 29………………………………………………………..Racing and Reminiscing

Chapter 30……………………………………………………….Vance Black Visits a Black Site

Chapter 31……………………………………………………….Arrival at Saturn

Chapter 32………………………….……………………………Who’s the Boss

Chapter 33……………………………………………………….Desperate Times

Chapter 34……………………………………………………….What Are Those, AAs?

Chapter 35……………………………………………………….The Flip

Chapter 36……………………………………………………….Begin Again

Chapter 37……………………………………………………….The Message

Chapter 38……………………………………………………….A Journey of Trauma

Chapter 39……………………………………………………….Integration

Chapter 40……………………………………………………….Home Sweet Home

Epilogue………………………………………………………….








Prologue



Almost a decade ago an electric storm swept through the Milky Way. For a year, flowers lost their brilliance, and at dusk the sky lay down to sleep without a hint of happy yellow. No reds. No burnt orange. No smiles or passion–as though emotion and beauty themselves had gone mute. It felt like the volume was turned down on life. Then, over a few months, everything was back to normal, for half the population. The other half started getting headaches, which crept into migraines. Their energy was cut in half, and their appetites waned. They seemed to be going dim like a light bulb, slowly dying.



Doctors would eventually call it “Mitochondrial Degeneration”, but like all epidemics, the people had another name ; Gravity Sickness. The debilitating weakness, fatigue, and brain fog worsened as nature's brilliance blossomed. As tides, weather patterns, and earthquakes became increasingly volatile, it became clear that Gravity Sickness was related to Earth’s gravitational change.



For fifteen years Captain Cole Nova had been the pride and joy of the Federal Space Forces, He had mined for Minerals on Mercury, performed emergency repairs in the rings of Jupiter, or gotten lost in the canyons on Mars. Cole had a way of getting into the tightest spots, the most unlikely rescues and always finding a way out. This earned him the nickname “Jackpot” by his fellow ‘Astros’ On his last trip to Saturn his luck ran out and the mission went sideways, half of his last crew was lost in a crash that was Cole’s fault. 



After months of investigations and hearings Cole exiled himself to the quiet and privacy of a family cabin at the edge of Sequoia National Park . However, Destiny does not let her heroes rest for long.

Compelled back into the cockpit by a desire to save his sister, Emily and the rest of humanity. Cole will have to face his past, and try to see if he can live up to his old nickname.





Chapter 1Impact

The winds of Saturn’s storms ripped around Cole Nova as he struggled to lodge the 12 foot girder rod under the dazzling chunk of Dark Matter. The cosmic element was pitch black and iridescent, the way it shimmered and reflected color and light lured and captivated your eyes even in a static state. The spaceship Cole was tethered to was almost filled to capacity with the valuable material and couldn’t begin its voyage home with this boulder, roughly the size of a coffee table, lodged in its “mouth”.

He retreated a few yards along the railings, and threaded the strap through them. In a one-man game of tug-o-war, he widened his stance and steadied himself. With a hefty pull on the nylon strap, he wrenched back the rod slowly.

To his relief, the asteroid of Dark Matter freed itself, actually seeming to push away from the ship's face.

Cole reported in. “Easy as pie!”

But he would swallow his words. Just as easily as the sample was removed, chunks of it blew off into the atmosphere. Driven by the irresistible, churning winds, a piece the size of a football took flight.

As if by its own volition the chunk slammed directly into Cole’s helmet. Shattering it. The rod and pieces of his helmet floated into the gulf stream of air and flew away as his body went limp and fluttered helplessly next to the hull of the ship.















Chapter 2

A Thousand Thrills

5 Years Earlier

A small A-frame cabin sat nestled amongst White Fir and Sugar Pine trees at the edge of Sequoia National Park. It was at the end of a dirt forest service road and used to be owned by Ulyses Nova, who used it for hunting. Upon his passing he left it to his favorite nephew Cole, who rarely visited. Cole would check on the cabin between missions to see if the roof had caved in. He often thought about selling it. It was a long drive from his apartment in San Diego, a place he referred to as ‘The Hotel Terra Firma’, since he rarely slept there.

After his last mission to Saturn, he could barely stand to be around people. He never imagined that he would ever call the cabin home, or that his room mate would be a six-limbed science project with bad gas.

Cole had just finished his weekly shower and as he entered the bedroom a picture frame caught his eye. It was a group of classmates from the academy. Corizon, Phillips, Hadley… For some reason it triggered memories farther back into his childhood. A jingle played in his head as he saw the commercial play out in his mind. 

‘A Thousand Thrills’, he saw kids going down waterslides, racing go karts. They blissfully stuffed their maws with cotton candy and funnel cakes. ‘A Thousand Thrills’ was a theme park about 3 hours away from his home. He remembered thinking “That has to be heaven on Earth, I have to experience it”.

Cole would plead to his parents every weekend, “It’s only three hours away! I’ll pay for my own ticket and I’ll even pay for gas!”

At first they offered excuses.“We’ve got a lot going on, maybe next weekend.”

When it became obvious that this wasn’t just a phase he was going through, his parents were irritated and blunt.“We don’t have the money, that would break the bank.” 

These deflections worked and Cole felt deeply troubled by the idea that his family was so financially fragile, so close to the edge. Cole began saving money from his paper route and lawn mowing jobs, afraid that they might not have enough for food or electricity.  One day Cole’s dad came home with a brand new Harley Davidson motorcycle. Cole thought they were broke, yet here was his dad blowing money on a toy.

Cole noticed that, in spite of this purchase, the family fared just fine. They weren’t evicted. They didn’t go hungry. They even kept buying ice cream. Cole felt duped.What else were they lying about? At night Cole and Emily would try to ignore their parents' quarrels.

Cole’s Mom- “We never see you! Time with your friends is one thing, but you should invite us.”

Cole’s Dad- “The fact that you need an invitation shows me you don’t get it.”

Mom- “Does Becky ‘get it’?”

Dad- “I told you before, she’s just a friend.”

Mom- “Then why is she the only woman in the club?”

Dad- “God, you’re so insecure.”

Mom- “I wonder where I get that from.”

The door would slam, starting another weekend without dad. Cole, his sister Emily, and his mom sat at home, bored and angry. Cole spent hours seething at the injustice of it all, but his anger fueled his motivation, he had a plan. As Cole got closer to his sixteenth birthday he set a goal to buy his own car. He spotted a gray Toyota Tercel, parked on the street a couple of blocks away. They were only asking $1,500. That was doable.

He talked to his friend Marcus, and together they hatched a plan to stay in Culver City over the summer. Marcus had an older cousin with his own apartment, they could split rent and share a room. ‘A Thousand Thrills’ was only 5 minutes from the apartment. They could spend three months not only enjoying the park, but getting paid as employees. Other kids at school had friends and relatives who worked at the theme park, and they would push Cole’s and Marcus’ applications to the front of the line. The plan was flawless.

Cole’s and Marcus' excitement was fueled by rumors of parties the employees would throw after the park closed; parties where pranks were played, and kids made out. They would turn off the governors on the go karts and race through the streets. They heard that these parties would go so late that most kids just slept over ‘til their shifts began the next day. The only family member Cole shared this plan with was Emily. She was a couple years older, and his only sibling.

Cole trusted Emily, she was the most loyal person he knew. Cole was counting down the days till he had the $1,500 he needed. Cole and Emily spent most of their time in their rooms.  The only time they saw their mom was when she sat at the kitchen table, thumbing through help wanted ads in the paper.

Cole dove into work, eager to get his car, and even more eager to get to Culver City. He felt bad about leaving Emily behind, but what else could he do? Finally, after over a year, the day came.He finished Mrs. Weber’s lawn and ran home with the last $20 he needed. He spread all of the cash out on his bed and double-counted the piles each consisting of $100. He gathered the money and stuffed it into a large ziplock bag. At his neighbor’s door he proudly presented what seemed to Cole a huge sum of money and signed the bill of sale.

 “Don’t your parents want to check out the car? Where are they?”asked the seller.

“This is my car.” Cole stated.

With the keys in hand, he opened the car and was greeted by the smell of old sun-faded plastic and seat cushions. He could feel the memories of a thousand road trips when he touched the steering wheel. He also discovered something that he hadn’t planned on: it was a manual. He had only practiced shifting in his uncle’s hunting truck a couple times on dirt roads. After sheepishly knocking on the neighbors door and getting a short lesson in how to release the clutch at just the right pressure, he lurched the car a few blocks home. Cole proudly brought the Tercel to a stop in the driveway.

It was a sunny afternoon in May, and along with the achievement of buying his first car, Cole was happy that he had managed to struggle through his sophomore classes. This would be a great summer. He could feel it.

His parents were pleasantly surprised by Cole’s ambition, and the sudden arrival of the car. He wasn’t going to tell his parents about leaving for Culver City until the night before. The applications were filled out, and he and Marcus had interviews scheduled the day after school let out.Cole already had his clothes and gear separatedseperated into two piles: what to take, and what to leave.He even had a small pile of stuff he would allow Emily to use for the summer.

He doubled his efforts at mowing lawns, picking up people's trash, and even picked up a second paper route as the school year came to an end. He wanted to make sure he’d have enough money for gas, insurance, food and rent.

A week before his exodus, Cole’s mom and dad sat him and Emily down. Cole felt the couch cushions on his back go cold as his mom and dad expressed the inevitable. He felt numb inside, until he looked over at Emily. Her face, that usually beamed with happiness, was now crushed in pain and silent tears cascaded down her cheeks. He broke with empathy for her. 

At first Cole didn’t understand the implications this would have on his plans. In the following days it became clear that his mom and Emily were devastated. His dad packed up and left so quickly that there were voids of open space where his stuff had been. It felt like the house was missing teeth. Cole felt a new weight on his shoulders, as heavy as the bags of water softener salt he carried down to the basement.

Cole dreaded delivering the news to Marcus. In a school stairwell he told Marcus, “I can’t go to Culver.”

“What?! You're the one with the car! This was your idea!” Marcus was visibly upset.

“I know, it was my idea. I’m really sorry, trust me if I could go I totally would.”He wished Marcus understood how bad things had gotten at home. “When my mom gets home she doesn’t even take off her apron. She just sits in front of the TV. She doesn’t even turn it on. And Emily…” he couldn’t finish the sentence without crying. 

“Come on, dude. Just because your dad left doesn’t mean our summer has to suck. Don’t back out on me now.” Marcus’ eyes were starting to water with rage.

Cole blamed himself. He felt like it was his fault that his dad left, that his mom was lost, and that Emily was broken inside. Cole knew his role at home had changed, and they needed him. They needed him to be strong. He had to be the chewing gum that held them together. Inside, he hated that he was being put in these situations, and became defensive. Cole spouted back,“Your parents are still together. Dude, you guys have a swimming pool in your backyard!”

School was out for summer. Marcus managed to find another ride to Culver City. When he did, he left Cole a note under the front porch mat. It read, “Find yourself a new best friend. I will NEVER forget how you screwed me over. -Marcus.”

Cole ended up getting a new job delivering pizza. Every time Cole heard stories about Marcus having fun at the park, he seethed with jealousy. He felt stuck.

After a summer of boredom and stress, Cole promised himself that he would never be trapped in one place again. He started looking into the Space Academy as an answer to his problems, but when he learned about the high-level classes that the Academy required, he was let down yet again. One night, he sat alone in his room. Sad music played as he stared at nothing in particular. There was a soft knock at the door, and Emily came in. 

“Hey dude, what’s wrong?” she asked, sitting on the bed next to him.

“The Academy only accepts straight A students. I’m so dumb for thinking I had a chance.”Cole said.

“No you’re not. Hey, look at me.” she implored.

Cole looked up from the floor, and tears escaped his red eyes. Emily looked at him with sincerity.“You can do anything you want,” she stated. He half-believed her.

“You just have to work really, really hard.” She let out a little laugh. It was the first time he’d heard her laugh since that night on the couch.

“I’m barely getting Cs” he lamented.

‘I’ll help you, every night. I’ve already aced the classes on your schedule next year.” she said. Emily was a great student, she always had been.“Come on poopy pants, I know you’re not afraid of hard work. You work harder than most adults I know.” Feeling she was close to winning him over, she challenged, “Or are you gonna be a little bitch?”

Cole wasn’t used to hearing his sister curse, and it shocked him into laughter. He was convinced that with her help it might just be possible. What other options did he have? Deliver more pizzas? ”This is gonna take a lot of time.” 

“If you’re willing to try, I will be there, every minute.” she promised, and she was.

Every day before and after work, books and papers would be littered all over the kitchen table. Emily and Cole would be filling out diagrams and scribbling in notebooks. Their mom began sneaking in to watch them work. At first she would “need a drink of water” or “check to see if the oven had been left on”. Eventually she became the third amigo, a regular fixture in their study group. It turned out that she had been a real nerd back in college. 

“What were you going to college for?” Emily asked.

“I wanted to be a chemical engineer, I always found it fascinating that little changes could transform a substance, or even shape a society.” Their mom replied.

“Like coffee or beer?” Cole joked. He’d never seen this side of his mom before. “Hey, why didn’t you get your degree and go into chemical engineering?”

“I met your dad and we had you… and everything changed. I thought I had to stay home and be a good wife.” The gravity of their current situation hung in the air.“Don’t let anyone tell you how to live your life.”Her voice sounded strained.

Emily broke the ice. “...Okay… Let’s see if we can get the order of operations right this time.” They got back to work with a greater sense of empathy for this woman. With all the work that Emily and Cole put in, they saw impressive gains in their progress and understanding. By the end of his senior year Cole was up to A’s and B’s. Definitely not the head of the class, but still in the running.

The Academy and Flight Center were down by San Diego. When Cole, Emily and their mom drove down for his exam, it all became real for him. As he came face-to-face with the space ships, their very presence stirred something deep within Cole. They seemed familiar, and at the same time it felt like they held answers to questions he hadn’t asked.

It felt like he’d finally have permission to be himself up there, without worldly worries. His only responsibility would be to his crewmates and the mission. Professional, cut and dry. That day he knew that if the Academy would give him a chance, he wouldn’t rest until he was the captain of his own ship. “Captain Nova.” He liked the sound of it.

A loud glugging noise from the other room broke the spell of his daydream. “Oh no! Not again.” Cole groaned.











Chapter 3

Brunch with Oil on the Side

As Cole rounded the hall he was met with a disturbing sight. In front of him stood a hybrid animal, half macaque, half science experiment. The animal had six limbs: four arms and two legs. It had brown and white fur, with streaks of auburn in its coat. Its face was childlike in repose, and its tail was barely a wisp. The monkey had originally weighed around fifteen pounds before a team of scientists altered him, now he tipped the scales at about forty pounds with all of the metal in him. It wasn’t the sight of this freakish creature that disturbed Cole, but what it was doing.

The monkey dropped the bright blue container it was holding in one of its six limbs. A dark fluid ran from the monkey’s mouth down through the fur on its chest. Cole reached out and knocked it away from the macaque, making sure the foolish animal didn't take another swig. The label read, “10-W30 Motor oil. Synthetic.”

“You goofy little bastard! You know I love you, but you have GOT to stop. Weren't the pancakes enough?” Cole had affectionately named the monkey Bitboi Leroy. The Federation’s research and development team had been attempting to create a weapon that could be trained almost as well as a human, but was more expendable. They’d settled on this unlucky primate as their prototype. His forearms were reinforced with metal rods. These metal rods supported the retractable steel blades embedded between his knuckles for lethal striking.

Unfortunately for them, the team contracted ‘Gravity Sickness’ and  weren't able to finish the project completely. The poor monkey’s hypothalamus, the part of the brain dealing with diet and drinking, was left unprogrammed. This led to a strong compulsion for the monkey to constantly drink any liquid.

The human and the monkey regarded each other. In the background, a news anchor's face appeared on a computer monitor, her droning voice covering the silence between them. “… in official statements from the governor's office on the rising mortality rate caused by Gravity Sickness, a wasting disease that affects literally billions of people across the planet. The good news is that Alpha Omega Corp now offers life-extending implants that work on a subscription basis.”

Irritated, Cole changed the channel to brightly animated cartoons. “No use in crying over spilled motor oil.” He pointed to the screen, “There…better?”

From  the monkey’s point of view, Cole was a rude fellow monkey. But he was also five times taller than Bitboi, which seemed pretty tall. By Bitboi's estimation, Cole was about middle aged, based on the silver color on the sides of his head-fur. Cole was also the big mean boss, who insisted on denying Bitboi this delectable drink. Still, he was also older, which made him the big monkey in charge. The macaque pouted and flipped him off with two hands, while giving thumbs up in approval with the other two hands. For now, the metal claws were retracted.

“I wish they'd finished programming your brain, dude.” Cole mumbled to his companion. There was really no way of fixing the defect. In his eyes Bitboi Leroy was a rude, if often amusing, hybrid. Bitboi folded his many arms and frowned, yet still watched the amusing cartoons.

“I don't know what to do. They make things childproof, but how do I make something monkey-proof? What's it gonna be next? Antifreeze? Windex? Sulfuric acid?” He huffed at the awareness that the monkey would never pay him any heed. Cole paused for a beat, then chuckled at the absurdity of it all. The macaque froze, his eyes fixated on the monitor, while reflections of cartoons flashed in his glazed over eyes. He caressed a stuffed toy alligator in one of his many hands. The poor toy looked like it had been through Viet Nam. Cole wondered how much of the plot of the cartoon the animal really understood.

“Well, let's get that oil out of you. I'm calling the good doctor.” Cole stated.

Observing the beer cans that littered the floor, he noted in a flat tone, “At this rate we'll never get healthy, my faithful lab assistant. Grab me a beer.” Bitboi flipped him off with all four hands, but still ambled to the refrigerator to grab a beer for Cole.

“And a fine thank you, Bitboi. Here's some pretzels for you.” Cole handed Bitboi a few of his snacks, which Bitboi enjoyed very much as he again dazed off to the wonders of the cartoon. Cole cracked open the beer, and checked his watch. 10:44 AM. I wonder what Emily would say about drinking in the morning, he thought, before taking a swig. He hastened to the medicine cabinet and took out a bottle of sedative, then drew his phone from his pocket, and tapped the name “Sharon” on his contact list. It rang once before a woman's voice answered. Getting straight to the point, she asked “Let me guess. Stomach pump?”

“Yep.” Cole stated.

“Aren't you going to call a real doctor?” her voice buzzed through the speaker.

“I’ll get in trouble again. This time it’s motor oil.” Cole interjected.

“Why was there a bottle of motor oil laying around, anyhow?” Sharon asked.

Cole rubbed his eyelids. “I got it for my Jeep, must've snuck in with the milk I got last week. You coming?”

“I'm 15 minutes out, already on my way. I still have it in my car from last time. See you in a sec.” Sharon reesponded.

Using his shiny robotic augments, the monkey pointed at the monitor. He laughed aloud at the colorful moving figures on the screen. Cole laughed with him, or maybe just near him. He went to the cabinet and fetched a bottle of sleeping medication, then returned to the living room and squatted next to the beast.His eyes narrowed. “Hey, Leroy. Want a drink?”

The monkey took sudden interest, and guzzled the blue medicine. Within minutes he was unconscious. Then came a familiar knock at the front door. Cole opened it a crack, and winced at the bright sunlight that dazzled across the pines and snow beyond before turning his gaze to his visitor.

“Good, it's you. Hey pretty girl.” Cole welcomed.

Here stood a slender woman, with dark hair framing her oval face. She was wearing a mink coat over a red wrap-dress that was held in place with a wide belt. She winked at him with one of her hazel eyes. Cole couldn't help but notice the gentle Egyptian perfume on her fur coat.

“You know how owls can freeze mice with their screech? You do that to me with your eyes.” Cole said. She carried a heavy black briefcase that made her sway slightly when she walked. She thought better of taking off her tall leather boots as the floor was no cleaner than the ground outside.

“Are you trying to flirt with me? Alright, tell me about our patient.” Sharon said.

“Ah yes, thank you, doctor. A monkey doing monkey business today. Shall we?” Cole asked. She swept through the door into the cabin, noticing the delicious smell of bacon and pancakes wafting from the kitchen. While she unpacked the stomach pump, her own belly grumbled.

“Did you eat breakfast without me?” Sharon asked.

Without missing a beat, Cole protested.“I made at least a dozen pancakes, and I left a few for you. At least I think I did.” he mumbled, uncertain.

She frowned. “Here, hold him for me while I get this in.”

Cole set down the now-empty beer can, and held the monkey's head back for her. The long tube descended down the macaque's throat. With the push of a button the device hummed to life, pulling putrid black sludge up with every beat. As it worked, she glanced at the empty can, bit her lips in thought,“Have you ever heard of that experiment about the kids and the marshmallows? If they waited 5 minutes without eating a marshmallow the kids would be rewarded with a second one. I’m guessing you two never got the second marshmallow.”

The machine purged the last of the oil out of the unfortunate monkey, who was now snoring. Sharon removed the tube, stood up and went to the kitchen sink to wash her hands. With a single glance around the place she quickly calculated that exactly four pancakes remained. She called out to Cole, “I thought you only wanted me for my body. But a girl could get used to this fancy lifestyle.”

Cole startled, suddenly remembering something. “Wait! I have a surprise for you! Sit down and close your eyes.” With some encouragement, she sat at the kitchen table, and covered her eyes with her hands. When she opened her eyes, a dark purple jar sat nestled by a fresh, hot plate of pancakes on the table before her.

“Cole, you remembered!”, she gasped.

He hugged her warmly around the shoulders. “I got this at a farmer's market. The last blackberry preserves they had!”

Sharon held his arm tightly around her chest. “Mmm! Quick. Open it for me.” Cole opened the jar for her with a satisfying pop. She grabbed her butter knife and smothered the buttery pancakes.“Aren't you going to join me?”

Cole got up and pulled ingredients from the shelves, dropped butter onto the skillet and turned on the stove. He grabbed a mixing bowl and poured flour and milk into it, then stirred them with a whisk. “He's going to need something when he wakes up.”

Sharon chastised him, “Psh, let the ape wait. Come on, eat with me.”

Cole continued cooking. He glanced back at Bitboi Leroy, and corrected Sharon. “You know, he's a monkey, not an ape.”

She rolled her eyes. “It's an abomination. Have you ever seen a primate with six limbs? With metal claws? That drinks diesel? That thing is disgusting. If I were you, I'd send it back to the lab and get back to real work, instead of babysitting.”

“He's a macaque.” Cole insisted.

“I don't give a damn what you do with your 'caque. I came over for pancakes, Cole.” she joked.

Cole admired her as his gaze returned to her delicate face. Cole snapped his attention back to the conversation.“I'm working. I am working. You just don't recognize it... yet.” He turned about to focus on the batter.

“Who would win if you had to choose between me and the furball with claws?” She enjoyed another bite.

Cole gritted his teeth. “His name is Bitboi Leroy, and HE is more precious to me than anything. He was with me up there... at the accident. Everyone else tends to... go away.” He stopped whipping the batter, and set the whisk down. “You know I adore you, Sharon, but an ultimatum isn't going to go your way.”

She changed her approach. “You don't know how to take a joke, do you?” Her expression soured, and Sharon wandered out of the kitchen, to the mantle over the fireplace. She analyzed a group photo of smiling people in space suits.“You should still be flying, 'Jackpot'.” Cole began to furiously mix the batter.“I'm not flying again. I can't.” Cole said.

She raised her eyebrows as if to point at the mixing bowl. “You're taking too long.”

Cole thought of  a way to lighten the mood, “Didn't the great poet once write, 'Tell the name of the flower or love, made more lovely by forcing it wide as a bud, or the splendor of a star wrenched from heavens above'?” He was relieved that the poetry had the intended effect of making her laugh.

“I think you wrote that,” she teased.

Cole rested on the door jamb of the kitchen. His elbow raised over his crown, with one hand supporting his head. He carefully slowed down his speech, selecting each word. “I, uh, I think I know what this is really about. Sharon, I don't want to open any wounds. You know this little guy is like a child to me. I can't lose him too.”

The moments passed. Sharon set her fork down on the kitchen table. At first her eyes watered. Her cheeks went red. Her condescending attitude disappeared entirely. She went to the sink, touching the empty plates with crumbs still on them, distracting herself from the hot tears pouring down her cheeks.“You son of a bitch. You son of a bitch, Cole. You still have your sister. You still have a family.” Cole turned around and tried to console her, putting his arms around her torso. He peppered her forehead with kisses.

Sharon gazed up at him. “Did you know she's sick?”

Cole's face fell. “Yes, I knew. The doctors say she has another year or two, but yeah, she has it.”

She gathered herself and implored him, “You should be spending more time with your family, with Emily while you still can... instead of monkeying around with your 'lab assistant'!” Cole stood, helpless. The butter sizzled in the skillet without batter.

Sharon grasped the sides of her head and strode out into the living room.“I lost a child already to it, but at least I'm moving forward. Bad things happen. Life goes on, Cole.”She sat on the couch, facing away from him.Cole said nothing, but he turned off the stove. In the living room, Bitboi Leroy stirred, and returned his attention to his cartoons, oblivious to the woman's eyes that were now boring into the back of his skull. After a deep breath, Sharon spoke again, “I got another letter for you. It's from the Council.”













Chapter 4 

A Call to Action

Although his mind had been on the monkey, pancakes and the metric volume of fuel needed to reach Mars and literally anything else, Cole fixated on what she'd just said. “Wait. Did you open it?” he asked.

“And burn my apartment down when it self-destructs? No, thanks.”Sharon replied.

“What do you think it is?” he insisted, sitting on the couch beside her.

Sharon cast her gaze around the log cabin, at the mounds of dirty laundry and empty food cans on the floor. “Probably that the Council wants to see you immediately. I guess you'll have to come out of hiding, Mr. Nova.” 

His countenance turned defensive. “I'm NOT in 'hiding'. I'm living my life without the Council, and they can say or do whatever they want. It's been five years, Sharon. Five YEARS, and they think they can put a leash on me and run me around like a dog? Do they? I can't put another crew at risk...” His voice trailed off, and his eyes puffed up red around the edges. The heat of his pain was palpable.

Sharon offered, “I don't know if I should feel like I'm in danger, or if I should feel satisfied.”

“How do you mean?” Cole asked, innocently.

She blinked, and commented, “That's the first real emotion I've seen out of you in months.”She pulled something out from her coat's inner pocket, a yellow, standard size envelope. She got up from the couch and slapped it to Cole's chest, but didn’t actually give it to him. Instead she held it hostage.“Tell me you're ready,” she demanded.

The monkey turned around and looked expectantly at Cole, and Cole stared back into the animal's eyes. He noticed how the metal implements in Leroy's arms twined around the muscles in such an unnatural way. He felt the macaque’s sympathy, which was mutual. There was still motor oil on Leroy's cheek. Cole's mind reeled as he wondered what was in the envelope.

“Just hand it to me Sharon?” Cole asked. His considered running his race car off the track or entering a demolition derby. Maybe he'd die and be free from all of this. No more bills to pay, no more nightmares. Just…”Please?”

With resentment, she extended the envelope to him across what seemed like a long distance on the sofa. She held the envelope in her fingertips as though it contained a plague. He snatched it. The yellow envelope was in his right hand. Now his finger ran across the smooth edge. He cast a glance at Sharon and shrugged with a bitter smile.

“I guess I'll have to call the pit crew about canceling the big race.” Cole said.

Puzzled by his statement she let it pass. Her eyes glowed darkly with what could be either disappointment or anticipation. He commented, “Sharon, you're impossible to read.”

She snapped, “Just read the letter!”

He delicately pulled crisp white papers from the envelope. In the upper left-hand corner, the unmistakable stamp of the Council's insignia was emblazoned over a return address in Texas. Cole felt a shudder along his spinal column as his guts wrenched in preparation of whatever he might read next. The words on the page seemed to disappear as memories overtook his imagination. Even his constant trickle of self-medication was not enough to bury his memories. Even the Council's logo couldn’t brake him free from the approaching flashback.

Sharon asked, “Is everything alr-”

But he was already gone, overwhelmed by visions. He saw the broken helmet of De La Cruz and the ruptured suit of Corporal Feder spraying gas into the emptiness of space and sending him hurtling untethered into endless nothing. He watched Corporal Davis cooked alive in his own suit... but he was finally shaken from his dark thoughts by Sharon's tense voice.

“What does it say?” she asked.

He had to take a moment to breathe and get the ringing out of his ears.

She rested her head on her hand, with her arm resting on the back of the sofa.“Another daydream?”

“I’ll be fine.” His eyes proceeded down the page, and he read each line out loud, tracing the characters with a shaking index finger.

“From the desk of Federation Chancellor Geoffery H. DeMint

Mr. Cole Nova, your assistance is required by the Federal Council. The Council has taken into full consideration many factors before making our decision. We are in possession of a copy of a paper with your signature, which legally waives your various rights as a United States citizen on September 12th, 2021 as part of your agreement to join the Stellar Council Forces. Your duty to the Council is ongoing.

It is with much displeasure, Mr. Nova, that we report to you the dire nature of the ongoing condition of humanity suffering under Gravitosis or “Gravity Sickness”. Our committee finds you to be uniquely qualified as fit for service.

Pack your things, Mr. Nova. An escort will fetch you and your animal assistant shortly to bring you to the Federal Space Command Headquarters. You are already under our watchful eye. We need the old Cole Nova back. The world is depending on you.     

- Federation Chancellor Geoffery H. DeMint

P.S. This letter will self-destruct in three minutes. Please place it in a fire- proof container before iignition.”

Cole crumpled the letter and threw it into a steel garbage pail as it began to heat up and smoke.“Sharon, I need to see Emily before I go. And, I need to load up my bags for me and for Leroy.”

Sharon inquired, “You’re going? Do we finally get to see the old 'Cole Nova'?”

With a slight smirk, Cole commented, “Who? The pride and joy of The Federal Council's Space Forces? The space cowboy, code name 'Jackpot'? I never left.” His phone vibrated with a new text message.

It read: “Outside. You have 30 minutes.”

He scowled. “Bastards! I need more time.” His attention was drawn to the sudden clattering of dishes in the kitchen. “Wait, where is Leroy?”

They both bolted towards the kitchen, and stopped dead in their tracks.

The macaque was on top of the counter when he spotted them, and dropped a big mixing bowl to the floor, where it shattered. He offered them an appeasing grin, while tan, bubbling pancake batter dribbled down his fur. Cole and Sharon laughed in mutual despair, but Sharon's laughter turned to rage. She pointed to the now-empty jar of blackberry preserves, and saw the blue trail of stains leading to Bitboi's many, many fingers. Blackberry juice had turned his steel claws a dark blue, and a hint of blue marked his lips and tongue.

She shrieked at the monkey, “Is nothing sacred to you? ”




















Chapter 5

It’s Only Business

The sunset shone dark magenta through the huge tinted windows. Plastic plants framed the view on either side of the room, marking the points at which a man in a sharp suit and tie paced back and forth, glancing at a dozen news feeds from a dozen televisions on each wall. He mumbled to himself, as if taking notes, “S&amp;P is up. Good. Another crackdown in Xinjiang? Better, uh... Hmm. Better set up a dealer in Skardu. War in Afghanistan... Lithium will be cheaper. Unrest in Peru. Wildlife prices will be very good. Good. Good.”

With his mobile phone in hand, he dialed a number. “Yeah, Felix? Felix. How are ya buddy? Yeah. Yeah, no. Great. Uh huh? Yes, the contest was easy. No, I nailed it. Next Thursday? Yeah we can do that. Get the boys together and make sure you practice. We're going to crush the Rizzo brothers on stage. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah my legs are still sore. Who knew dancing could be such a workout, am I right? Alright, bud. Alright. Yeah? No, no, it's all in order. Yeah… Nobody likes hearing they have an ugly baby, but facts are facts. I have to tell you, for each of the last six quarters gravity sickness has been the goose that lays golden eggs. Maximum profits for the biomedical sector. Totally cornered it! Yeah. Nah. Yeah. No, we have some new products coming out. Some stimulants we haven't had a reason to release before. No it's totally new, it plays with mitochondrial DNA and sets up the cellular membrane to a proprietary filter, you know blah blah and all that jargon. No, we're talking pennies on the dollar. Jump in before we go public with it. Get your bids in, it’s gonna skyrocket. Yeah. Uh huh. Uh huh. Hang on, Felix. I have a call coming in. Let me call you back. Yeah, bye.”

A few feet away, on a vast mahogany desk, a tiny intercom buzzed. A woman's voice came through. “Mr. Marcus, phone call on line 1. It's Mr. X.”

Marcus paused his pacing. “Put him through.” The line buzzed with static for an instant and transferred to his pocket phone. He picked it up and answered.

“Mr. Marcus, how's business?” Mr. X asked.

“Business is business. What do you have for me?”asked Marcus.

“Is this line secure?” Mr. X checked.

“Obviously. What do you have?” asked Marcus.

“There are some strange things going on in the Federation. They're reactivating some old pilots and there's a lot of chatter about Saturn. The west wing has been sealed as tight as a drum. You're going to want to talk to your guy in R&amp;D.” Mr. X unloaded.

Marcus fell silent.

“Mr. Marcus, are you there?” Mr. X asked.

“He hasn't said anything to me. Wonder why.” Marcus bit his lip so hard that it bled, hung up the phone and placed his hand on the window. The brilliant magenta of the sky was dimming as the sun set. In another heartbeat, a cruel smile spread across his face. 

“Looks like Cole’s the one looking for a ride this time.” Marcus gloated. His thumb caressed the smooth, cold glass of the phone. He pulled up a mapping program and noticed that two dots were moving together on the map, labeled “RC” and “CN”. He chuckled to himself.“It's time to send a message.”






























Chapter 6


Ricky The Chauffeur

Pine trees and Aspens whizzed past the SUV as Ricardo handled the winding country road with careless ease. Gravel crunched under the tires as he pulled into the driveway. Before him stood a single A frame cabin. There were two vehicles parked outside of it, and he pulled out his phone. Scrolling down his contact list he found the name he was looking for.

Jackpot Cole Nova(590) 727-5813

He texted: “Outside. You have 30 minutes.”

Ricardo cracked open a lukewarm energy drink, and took a sip before setting it back in the cup holder. He waited, wondering out loud, “Wow. They must be desperate for a pilot if they're resorting to him.” Before long, the front door of the cabin swung open and Sharon emerged, donning a fur coat and holding a briefcase. Behind her, a disheveled-looking man strode out in a tracksuit, while carrying a duffel bag over one shoulder. His other hand was gripping the paw of a...

‘Now wait a minute. Does that monkey have four arms? What in the world?’ Ricardo thought. He got out and opened the back door.“Jackpot!” Ricardo yelled as if he were in front of a winning slot machine, “Ready to be an ‘Astro’ again, I thought the Federation hit the eject button on you.”

“Well if it isn’t ‘Heavy Hitter’ himself! You know how those guys at command are, up is down, hot is cold. Damn, how long has it been? Don’t tell me they recruited you for this pleasure cruise too? Help me with this bag will ya.” asked Cole.

Ricardo reached out and assisted with one of the two straps. “I see you and Sharon are still punishing each other with love.”

Sharon rolled her eyes and stepped forward. “‘Heavy Hitter’ huh? I’ve only heard you referred to as Ricky or Corazon.”

“Only ‘Astros’ call me “Heavy Hitter.” Ricky responded.

“What’s it mean?” Sharon asked.

Ricardo sucked his teeth, “Sorry, ‘astros’ only.”

“That’s a website I’ll definitely never visit,” Sharon retorted. 

Cole laughed. “I’m glad we’ll have a friendly face up there. This’ll be our first time off planet in over five years.”

“Did I hear right? You named the poor monkey Bitboi? Was ‘Lil Fury’ taken already? And don’t be too sure about my face being friendly. It's the semifinals next month and I was supposed to be on leave.” Ricky nodded towards Bitboi “So what’s up with ‘project X’? Why does that monkey have four arms? I thought you were in a twelve step program to overcome your disease.”

Cole bantered back. “First of all, he's a research assistant, and second, those meetings only work if you work them. The miracle of science you see before you comes to us, compliments of ‘Brahma The Creator’. Seventeen Hindi doctors worked together for three months to accomplish that little fella.”

“Wait, seventeen Hindi doctors?” Ricardo exclaimed.

“Well, four were Sikhs, but that's a long debate. Either way, they really know their biotech. Don’t worry, he won’t take those claws out towards us unless he drinks the wrong stuff. The most danger my li’l buddy poses to us would be drinking your oil straight out of the drain plug.” Cole said.

Bitboi climbed into the back seat out of habit. Cole and Ricardo swung the duffel into the SUV’s opened hatch. They found themselves standing across from one another, Cole on the passenger side and Ricky on the driver's side. Ricardo took this opportunity to assess how damaged Cole was from the crash and years of exile. He tested Cole’s mettle. 

Ricky prodded with “You two make a great couple. You kinda remind me of the beautiful people in picture frames. You know, the ones in the package. The ones you throw out and replace with people you care about?”

“We’ll take that as a compliment. I guess?” Cole replied.

Sharon sensed an agenda. Where was Ricky going with this?Sharon joined Cole at his side and pulled his face towards hers in both hands and delivered a perfectly-timed, fully-committed kiss. She exclaimed, “Those picture frame models don’t come close to our hotness.” She grabbed Cole's scruffy cheeks possessively, “Now isn't that right?” In the iron grip of her delicate hands, Cole could tell the stakes were being raised.

“Damn straight, honey” Cole committed. She was playing it cool but at the same time she could feel knots in her stomach with her rising fears about the mission. Cole also felt a rush, realizing how connected to her he felt in this moment. He also felt Ricardo was acting strange. Sharon had his back and with his arm around her waist he gave a gentle squeeze, and enjoyed a moment of peace. He could feel her body heat rising as she nestled under his arm. From inside the SUV Bitboi rubbed his six palms together and made kissing noises trying to catch up with the affectionate performance.

 

Ricardo was hoping for a little push back from Cole, after all his life would be in Cole’s hands. Did he have any courage left?



Ricardo's forehead went red with frustration. Recognizing he had to try again, he brushed his left shoulder as if there were dust on it. He zeroed in on Cole, continuing his challenge.“Holy smokes, What’s it been? Five years? When’s the last time a razor’s seen your face? Been training at all? What’s your cholesterol like? Can you even fit into a flight suit? Are you ready to defy gravity? Are you ready for puffy-face, chicken-legs time?”

Sharon turned her head. “Puffy face, what time?”

Cole answered with his own space jargon. “Let’s get that head rush. Punch through and burn that perchlorate. If the payload doesn’t make it home, ain't nobody gettin paid! We’ll be home in bed while the thrusters are still hot enough to cook an egg on.” It was as easy as slipping into his old boots.

Sharon leaned back, unimpressed. “You boys have fun with your ‘Astros only’ cult. If you stop by Hale Bopp’s comet for some sneakers don’t drink the koolaid.”

Without breaking his staring contest with Ricardo, Cole spoke to Sharon.“Love you too, baby.” Cole smiled warmly at Sharon, and she couldn't help but reflect her own smile. They stepped close together again, with a short kiss followed by strongly gazing into each other's eyes. Without a word, they both pushed the possibility out of their minds that this might be their last moment together.

“You're giving me diabetes over here!” Ricardo cringed, “ Hallmark called and said it’s too much. Let's get moving!”

With some difficulty, Cole got the harness of a carseat over Bitbois head. “The rental came with a car seat?” Coles asked.

“I always request one for my bowling balls” Ricardo answered, “Can’t have them rolling around getting scratched.”

“They’re in cases,” Cole argued as he walked around to the front passenger seat.

“Oh, Coley no bowling, you just don’t get it” Ricky stated.

Ricardo got in the driver's side. A dust cloud flew around the rental car as he pulled away.

Cole watched Sharon in the rear view mirror until she was too small to make out, then he put his phone up to his ear. Ricardo looked as though he were about to say something, but Cole held up a finger.

“Yeah, hi. Emily!” He forced as much cheer into his voice as he could. “How are you feeling today? You sound a little under the weather... Oh, no reason. I wanted to let you know I'm going away for a while. I can't say anything else about it. You, uh...” His voice cracked, betraying him.“Just take care of yourself, okay? I’ll see you when I get back. Yeah I'm on the road. I love you too. Bye.”

Ricardo's eyebrow raised. “Emily? Your sister?”

“Yeah.” Cole replied

“How much does she weigh nowadays?” Ricky said.

“Don't even start with that,” Cole responded..

“You know I like bigger girls, right?” Ricky said.

Cole shrugged off the jab with a grin. “How could I possibly forget? What was her name, 'Sammie Sammie from Cincinnati' or was it 'Trina from San Bernardin-ah?”

Ricardo surrendered. “All right. All right, remember Raquelle the Spell Caster from a Shell station in Lancaster? Hah. Hah. Hah.” The small SUV hummed down the road, stirring up clouds of dust at each turn. The cold air from the A/C  sent shivers up Cole's forearms, and formed goose bumps on his skin.

“It's already cold. Doesn't the heater work?” Cole complained.

Ricky relented, “Fine, Fine. I'll turn up the heater just for you, princess. We have about an hour to the airport. Want to catch up?”

Cole shrugged.

Ricky went on. “They’ve had me shuttling supplies to the asteroid miners every other year, and doing short jumps to orbit stations, sometimes during meteor storms. Man, you had to be there! It was looking pretty bad. Asteroids hit my wings like buckshot, I made it back by the skin on my teeth. The tail almost fell off about a thousand feet before I hit the runway. But my bird held together. Hah hah! Man you should've seen it. I should have retired years ago. You, uh, liking retirement? Well, now ex-retirement, I guess. How did they get you to come back? They must have blackmail on you to get you back into the cockpit. Me? I got the call while I was bowling a perfect game.”

Cole found himself, watching the trees pass. “Uh huh.”

Ricardo's smile faded, “Are you always this cheerful?”

Cole's mood shifted from apathy to sour, “Could we... not talk about accidents?”Cole shut his eyes tightly, and tried to breathe through the rising visions before they could fully overtake him. With a slow inhale and a long exhale he brought his awareness back to the present moment.“Sorry. I don't get a lot of human interaction. Most of my visitors, for the last half decade, have been angry protesters. You know what it’s like to have a widow scream in your face, ‘It should have been you!?’ Sorry, Ricardo. I just...”

Ricardo grunted, communicating nothing. He realized how thirsty he was feeling, so he reached for his energy drink, but it was no longer there. He looked at the empty cup holder, taking his eyes off the road for just a few moments. For the mere span of two heartbeats, Ricardo's hands left the wheel, and the vehicle swerved right and left, then right again, skittering down the dirt road. Ricardo calmly righted himself, taking control of the steering wheel again, then got back in his lane. With the ride smoothing out, Cole exhaled hard. He was on to Ricardo's little game.

“Are you testing me, Corazon?” Cole asked.

Ricardo gloated back, with a hint of delight, “Me? Test you?”

“Just answer my question,” Cole pressed.

“Just having some fun, space cowboy. Heh heh.” Ricky said. 

Cole knew that Ricardo was searching for something, but didn’t know what it was yet. Ricardo fumbled around the console with one hand, taking his eyes off the gravel road for a second. Cole asked Ricardo, in a warmer tone, “Don't worry about it. What were you looking for? I’ll get it so you can focus on driving.”

Ricardo's hands loosened their grip on the steering wheel and he looked around the cabin. “My energy drink is missing.”

Cole gasped. “Your what?!”

He stole a glance to the back seat, where Bitboi was finishing the last drops of the shiny can.Cole buried his face in his hands. “We have maybe five minutes.”

Ricardo's brows furrowed. “Did your monkey drink my drink? You owe me one at the next gas station.”

Cole gave him a haunted look. “You don't understand! He drank... an energy drink!”He stared back at Bitboi, who was now making obscene gestures at him with all six limbs from his baby seat.

Ricardo shrugged, “So what?” At the same time he noticed something in his rear view mirror.“Hey, I think we're being followed.”











Chapter 7

Pets with Benefits

A Black Escalade with tinted windows was directly behind them, and driving entirely too closely. It sped up suddenly pulling alongside them, then roared ahead and swung directly in front of them. The brake lights shone red, as the driver slammed on the brakes.

Cole gripped the overhead handle and braced himself. Ricardo hit the brakes hard, shifted to a lower gear, then hit the gas. He swerved left around the Escalade in a shower of gravel and dirt and hurtled past it. Now in front of the escalade, he drove even faster to create distance between them and the aggressor.

Bitboi’s claws emerged from behind his knuckles, unleashing the sound of sixteen swords being drawn from their sheaths. He let out a horrific howl, tore through his seat belt, and jumped around in the back seat. He shredded the cushions and raked the ceiling open with his claws.

Still looking entirely too calm, Ricardo jested, “Somebody doesn't like you, Cole. And please, handle your monkey.”

Cole's face went pale and perspiration formed on his forehead.“They can wait in line with the rest. Ohhhh I'm going to be sick.”

The Escalade was in the rear view again, careening towards them.“Nah, go ahead and puke. I'm just glad this isn't my car. Alright, Jackpot. Call the cops. I'm not stopping for these clowns.” Ricky ordered.

Cole hastily located his phone and dialed. The operator picked up.“911, please state your name and the location of your emergency.”

“This is Cole Nova. I’m located at mile marker... thirty eight on Forest Service Road 28. I am being tailed by an aggressive driver. They’re trying to run us off the road. Please send a unit.”

“I'm sorry sir. We don't have any units in that area. Can you get away from them?”There was the sound of typing on the other end of the line.

 “We're doing our best.” Cole said.

“Who else is with you?” the operator asked.

“Ricardo Corazon and a monkey.” Cole answered. There was a moment of silence on the line

“Is this a prank call?” the operator demanded.

“Madam, this is no prank!” Cole insisted.

“Well, we have no units in that area. Our nearest units are handling a riot in Fresno. I wish I could help you. Your report has been logged. Sorry, sir. Good luck.” She ended the call.

Bitboi Leroy was shrieking and dismantling the back seat. He climbed on top of the duffel bag in the trunk. Cole shot a look back. 

“What are you doing?!” he demanded of the monkey.

The Escalade made contact with their bumper and shifted left, shoving the SUV askew and onto the rocky shoulder.

Ricardo asked him, “Do you have a gun?”

“This is California. What do you think?” Cole quipped.

Ricardo sucked his teeth in disappointment. “Point taken.” He negotiated the velocity carefully, instinctually knowing to turn the wheel ever so slightly and accelerated again. The car bounced back onto the road, but the Escalade sped up to meet them.

Bitboi Leroy stopped thrashing about and glared at the attacker. He waited for just the right moment, as the Escalade was about to hit the bumper again. The monkey violently smashed the rear window with a metal fist, and leaped out. He landed on the hood of the Escalade fists-first, with a metallic clang, denting it deeply. He ripped the windshield wipers off the vehicle, and shattered the windshield. The primate disappeared into the Escalade.

It slowed to a stop.

Cole ordered, “Stop the car, Stop the car!”

Ricardo seemed more irritated than anything. “Fine, fine.”He came to a complete stop. Cole poured himself out of the passenger seat, and ran towards the Escalade along the side of the road. Shots rang out. Cole winced and shielded his head with his arms. The shrieking of a monkey drowned out the screaming of a man. More gunshots, then silence.Cole collected himself and scurried over to the wreckage. He howled, “Oh God, oh God. Bitboi! Bitboi! Are you in there?”

Behind the steering wheel was a bloodied, unconscious man in a sport coat and tee shirt. On the passenger side floor, lay an empty hamburger bag and a pistol. Bitboi Leroy squatted in the passenger seat, sucking on the straw of the man's soda with a satisfied grin.

“Let's get out of here, buddy. But first...” Cole pulled the man's wallet from the inside pocket of his sport coat, then took a photo of his license. Cole snagged the gun, then grabbed sand from the roadside. He emptied the remaining bullets from the magazine, then cocked the gun, pouring sand into the slide. He racked it until it no longer moved, then threw it into the bushes. “Let's go. Let's go!”

Bitboi Leroy clambered out of the Escalade and made sure to pop the left front tire with his claws as he went by. He blew a raspberry at the Escalade, then Cole and Bitboi scuttled off hand in hand, and got back into the car with Ricardo. They sped off.

Cole reported, “I got a photo of his ID. When we get to the Council we'll have to file a report.”

Ricardo glanced back at Bitboi Leroy with gratitude. “It's a good thing we had that monkey, now isn't it? I bet he has his pick of the chunky monkey ladies.”

Cole nodded. “Great band name. For sure. He's the best lab assistant ever.”

Ricardo observed, “He's got skills. How come the Council's not using him? And who chose you to be his babysitter?”

Cole's eyebrows raised. “I asked for the assignment. I needed time to screw my head back on, so I did all the paperwork for him to come live with me in my cabin... instead of leaving him to be tortured in a cold lab. The Council was making a weapon out of him, but he flunked out.”

“I’d give him an A,” Ricardo bantered.

Cole leaned his seat back to make room, then crawled over to inspect Bitboi Leroy for wounds. “There's blood all over you buddy. Are you hurt?” There was blood on him, but after a thorough examination, Cole determined that at least it wasn't Bitboi’s.

- - -

The buildings got taller as they made it into the city. A couple of cholos in a lowrider pulled up next to them at a stoplight. “Nice ride, ese.”

Ricardo waved at them all-too politely. “Golly, how swell of you to notice. What a nice compliment!”

They shook their heads in total disrespect, peeling out when the light changed.

Cole commented, “We just left a crime scene, Ricardo. I'm pretty sure we just committed a felony.”

“I'd say we just neutralized a threat,” Ricardo corrected.

“Well, either way. Let's keep this under our hats for now.” Cole said.

Ricardo considered, “I've been thinking about it. Somebody's got to be watching you. That driver knew our location. That narrows it down to only a couple of groups.”

“Lots of people have reason to hate me,” Cole surmised.

“Well, you aren't exactly the belle of the ball at the Federation, Cole. Anyway, what's the name on the card?” Ricardo asked.

Cole examined the image. “Mati Allin’s. Texas driver's license.”

Ricardo mused, “Doesn't ring a bell. Wait. Say... wasn't Corporal Brandon Davis engaged to an Allins gal?”

Cole's countenance dropped. “Yes. Corporal Davis was getting ready to get married to Savannah Allins. Do you think the guy in the Escalade was her brother or something?”

Ricardo enjoined, “Couldn’t say. It's all just very convenient timing if you ask me. The Federation is always watching, but they're not the only ones with an agenda.”


































Chapter 8

Flying First Class



Ricardo made it to the airport without further incident. The stench of smoke filled their nostrils, coming from several burnt-out buildings along the way. It had an industrial chemical taste to it. Police barricades blocked several streets. Ricardo proclaimed, “Just another day in the late, great Golden State.”

When they pulled up to the passenger drop-off zone, a Federal private greeted them in dismay. “What the hell happened to this car?”

“Road construction. Am I right?” Ricardo handed him the keys.

Cole asked Ricardo, “Do you think we'll have any trouble getting the monkey through security?”

“Nah, it's all set up. We'll get waived through. It's a private flight.” Ricky assured him.

At the terminal a sharp-looking corporal held up a small dry erase board, which had “Nova” written on it. The permanent marker was still in the corporal’s hand.

Cole turned to Ricardo, and chuckled, “Marines.”

Ricardo laughed and said, “I thought they were into crayons.”

Cole and Ricardo approached him. Bitboi was holding tightly onto Cole’s hand.

“You our contact?” Cole asked.

“Captain Nova. Captain Corazon. Follow me, please… Uh… Why is that monkey covered in blood?” the corporal asked nervously.

“He just saved us from a carjacker.” Ricky said.

“Well, that's California for you.” the corporal said with a sly look, “ Bathroom's this way.”

After washing Bitboi in a sink, the trio hurried along with the monkey in tow through several well-lit corridors, far away from the prying eyes of crowds. They moved briskly with long strides towards an empty flight terminal, then down the ramp to the asphalt below. In the bright afternoon light, the tarmac extended left and right. Dead ahead, a C-130 Hercules was warming up its engines. The propellers purred a low growl that could be felt through the ground. The harsh wind whipped their faces as they approached the open tailgate.

Cole elbowed Ricardo in the ribs. “Private flight, huh?”

Ricardo joked, “I hear the in-flight movie's going to be Die Hard.”

Aboard the plane, the seating left something to be desired. The corporal watched as Cole strapped Bitboi Leroy into the red webbing of the seats.The corporal commented, “You might want to sedate your monkey.”

“Got any pretzels?” Cole joked as his hand descended into his jacket, and emerged with a bottle of nighttime sleeping medicine. “Nighty night. Sweet dreams. Enjoy the chunky lady monkeys!”

Bitboi reached out for the bottle and eagerly polished off the blue swill. Before long, the plane ascended into the wind with a short takeoff, then tilted as it wheeled about towards the southeast. Ricardo whipped out a book.

“Where did you get that?” Cole yelled.

“101 Ways to Improve Your Bowling Game. Should I read it out loud to you?” he yelled back.

“What’s that?” Cole yelled back.

“Should I read it out loud? To you!?” Ricky bellowed.

“Thanks. I'll pass!” Cole yelled.

“Suit yourself!” Ricky shrugged. He stuck two bright orange earplugs in to help shield against the deafening noise that filled the cabin. The plane shuddered in the air column.

Cole shouted over the ruckus of the engines. “I'm going to grab some shut-eye! It might be the last chance for a few days!”

Ricardo Corazon was deaf to this, and offered no reply. Across the aisle drool traveled down Bitboi’s fury chest as he half snuggled into Cole’s side. Cole nodded off, though the turbulence made sleeping difficult. Still, he drifted off into a quiet, dreamless sleep.

-  - -

Eventually, Cole was jolted awake by the sounds of the landing gear. Bitboi fidgeted in his dreams, held in place by multiple belts through his many armpits. The drool now dry on his chest. Across the aisle, Ricardo was still reading attentively.

Cole wiped the muck from his eyes and mumbled, “How long was I out?”

Ricardo hadn't heard him so he repeated his question more loudly.

Ricardo set the book aside and shouted, “It's been a few hours!”

The plane's wheels bounced on the runway, then gripped the pavement. The sudden deceleration pressed Cole sideways in his chair, while Ricardo calmly braced himself. Bitboi was jarred awake, and, not recognizing his surroundings, screeched and howled, thrashing around in his chair.

The corporal's hand rested firmly on his sidearm. “You'd better get that monkey under control, Captain!”

Cole put up an appeasing hand. “Relax! He'll calm down once the plane has stopped.”

The corporal insisted, “More sedative!”

“There isn't any left!” Cole pulled a small and well-worn stuffed alligator from his bag, and handed it to Bitboi. The monkey nestled the toy in his arms in contentment. At least this would keep the claws from coming out.Cole addressed the nervous marine, “That's a valuable asset, Corporal. Just think about it before you get too trigger happy!”

Bitboi began cooing and petting his stuffed toy. The young Marine watched as the monkey was soothed. The corporal gradually eased his hand away from his weapon. With the C-130 Hercules at a full stop, Cole unstrapped Bitboi Leroy, who clung to him as a child clings to its mother. He grabbed his duffel bag while the corporal lowered the tailgate.

Ricardo’s book had vanished, as mysteriously as it had earlier appeared. Cole was determined to figure out this magic trick of Ricky’s. They strolled down the ramp. Bitboi flipped off the corporal with all four hands. The corporal scowled at the monkey, but chose not to say anything. On the tarmac below, a black SUV waited, glinting with fresh polish. Beside it stood the driver; a tall string bean of a man in his mid-twenties, who was sporting a cap and shades. He held a sign that read, “COLE NOVA.”

As the trio approached him, Ricardo grumbled, “Where's my sign?”
























Chapter 9

Handshakes and Hostility



Cole marveled at the renovations of the command center. “My God! So much has changed!”

An attendant had a cart ready at the curbside, and the driver hoisted their bags onto it. Cole gripped one of the cart handles and dragged it along, with Bitboi Leroy clinging to his back like a living backpack. Armed guards escorted Cole and Ricardo through wide, mirrored doors that reflected the warm setting sun.

Ricardo cracked a smile. “A lot has changed since you took a sabbatical, bud. More than just the building.”

Bitboi Leroy cooed at every shiny object he spotted. Inside the building, far to the left and right of them, massive concrete pillars ascended several floors high. The concrete pillars supported a high arched ceiling. Industrial lights hung on long cables above.

Cole and Ricardo approached four individuals who stood at the far end of the corridor. At the head of the group loomed an elderly man in a tan general's uniform and hat, with a huge ring on each of his gnarled but exposed and welcoming hands. In a rich voice he boomed, “Look what the cat dragged in. If it isn’t Captain Cole Nova, the crown jewel of the Federation!”

Nobody had called him that in a long time, and it caused Cole to cringe internally. He breathed slowly through his nostrils, and tried his best to seem confident. “And if it isn't Federation Chancellor Geoffery H. DeMint. I received your letter, sir.”

Ricardo raced ahead and shook the Chancellor's hand first. The Chancellor nodded to him politely and returned his attention to Cole Nova, taking his hand and gripping it like a vise. Cole wondered if his fingers would brake. Chancellor DeMint pulled him close as if to share a secret, but spoke just as loudly as before.

“What's with the beard? Has cabin life turned you into a lumberjack?” He laughed raucously, but no one else joined in the chancellor's amusement. Cole managed to force a little chuckle out to placate the man. To the right of Chancellor DeMint another man looked Cole in the eyes, and shared in the awkwardness of the moment. The other man was dressed very casually.  He wore a crisp, white polo with a Federal Council Command logo. He had on designer glasses which framed a chic haircut and sported comfortable white sneakers. The stylish man removed his hand from his jean pocket, and extended an easy greeting.

“Vance Black. Operations. Good to meet you.”

Cole managed to extract his hand from the Chancellor’s iron paw, and hurriedly shook Vance’s hand. Vance exuded confidence. DeMint instructed, “Now, let's get you cleaned up and presentable. You might want to do some reading tonight, but get some rest. Real training begins at 4:30 AM tomorrow morning, sharp. Understood?”

In Vance’s shadow stood a man that almost went unnoticed, standing about five and a half feet tall. He looked both dressed up and shabby at the same time. He wore a tan sport coat, gray slacks and scuffed brown oxfords. His tired eyes were underscored by dark bags, as if he hadn't slept in days.  A short black beard emphasized the lack of hair on top of his head. He reached out to shake both Cole's and Ricardo's hands vigorously.“I'm Kyle Gomez, head of the engineering team. Looking forward to supporting your mission, gentlemen. Oh, and, uh, and the monkey too. Ha ha, every one of you.” He pulled a banana from his coat pocket and presented the gift to Bitboi, who graciously accepted it. This elicited a soft awww from the group.

“Looks like you’re already the cool kid here” joked Cole.

Bitboi’s eyes widened and he savagely flayed the fruit, then messily jammed it through his fangs. Just beside Kyle, a woman in a professional business suit rested with her arms on her hips. She had a narrow, beak-like nose and harsh eyes.  Her brunette A-line hair cut only served to make her disapproving expression more repellant. She did nothing to hide her feelings about Cole, either. She tapped the shoulder of Chancellor DeMint and imposed upon him, “This? This is your ace in the hole? How are we going to spin this? The man who saves humanity is a hobo with a literal monkey on his back?”

Chancellor DeMint snapped his fingers at her. “We can discuss this later in detail, Representative Vayes. But, yes, he is. Captain Nova, Captain Corazon and this extremely expensive primate are the team we need. I don’t expect you to understand, as you haven’t been briefed. This mission is critical, and this is the team to do it.”

Vayes rallied, with a deep, slow inhale, she offered a stark response. Through her thin lips she snarled “I would remind you that the Federation is not some independent island. Legislative bodies still control the funding and resources you receive, and my office has not received all of the reports we’ve requested numerous times. The line item budget we have received for this project is absurd. Are you trying to bankrupt the Defense Department, or are you trying to drain the resources of the ENTIRE government? The cost of that monkey is the least of your problems.”

If these threats agitated DeMint, he did a great job hiding it. “Now, in spite of his current appearance, Captain Nova has a track record of over two billion miles, and Captain Corazon has over a hundred successful missions under his belt. Missions that were of extreme risk, and of crucial importance to this governing body. There’s a reason they’re referred to as ‘Jackpot’ and ‘Heavy Hitter.’ Will that be all?His words sizzled in the air, and Vayes looked away dejected. Ricardo smiled, both at the glowing praise and enjoying  the fact that only the ‘Astros’ knew the real meaning behind his nickname.

Chancellor DeMint mentally weighed if this battle was worth the effort, touched his tongue to his teeth, and changed the subject. He concluded, “Well, gentlemen, you can see we have a professional team of real experts here, and we wouldn't want to let them down, now would we?”

Representative Vayes’ eyes smoldered with hatred towards them all. Cole gulped, and Ricardo took one step back, with a grimace on his face.

Chancellor Geoffery H. DeMint ushered Cole, Ricardo and Bitboi through a set of doors, past a spacious lobby filled with reception’s desks. Then through another set of doors, down a fluorescent-lit hallway. The floors were linoleum, and the walls were white-painted bricks. Classroom doors were evenly spaced along the echoing hallway. The hollow clacking of their dress shoes resonated down the halls.

Cole took this opportunity to get the answers to the questions that had been gnawing at the back of his mind ever since reading the letter in the cabin. 

“Now that we’ve reported in person I’d appreciate a briefing on exactly why we’re here and what this mission has to do with finding a cure for Gravity Sickness.” Cole requested.

The chancellor nodded his head and turned to Vance Black. “Mr. Black here can show you our plan, he was on the team that tracked your medical and flight records that led to the discovery of this miracle.”

Vance motioned toward a nearby golf cart, “Feildtrip time fellas.”























Chapter 10

A Cure for what Ails You

Ricardo got in the passenger seat of the golf cart, leaving room for Cole and Bitboi Leroy in the back seats. He greeted Vance with an iron handshake.

Cole was amused by Vance’s casual attire. “Say, are those sandals standard issue?”

Vance Black yawned. “Being a private contractor has its benefits.”

Cole inquired,”This isn't strictly a public sector operation?”

Ricardo snorted but grinned. “Chancellor DeMint would have thrown us in the brig if we'd dressed like that.”

Vance gave a mirthless grimace. “There's a lot less decorum and a lot more focus on functionality. I don't care if you fly up there in a homemade see-through plastic wrap suit with a tinfoil hat, as long as you get the job done, and do it well.”

The walls and ceiling enclosed them tighter as the cart turned down hallways deeper into the complex. White-painted brick walls and linoleum flooring ended at automatic doors, leading out onto a cement bridge. On the other side of the bridge, square cement shapes formed the buildings beyond. Long slabs of plain concrete surfaces jutted out from each other. It had a very functional cold feeling to the layout of buildings.

Cole asked, “Are we heading to training?”

Vance nodded. “On a budget. Yes sir.”

Ricardo raised an eyebrow. “What's on a budget supposed to mean?”

Vance zipped tightly in a hasty 90 degree slide around another gangway corner. He slowed down as they passed an engineer, all waving hello, and again accelerated along the labyrinth of cement and steel. Iron and concrete pillars held up the heavy trail as it ascended and descended, with a smattering of elevators on the inner rim of a vast courtyard. Cole pointed below and shouted over the whirring of the electric wheels. “Rick! Look at the agricultural rows. That whole area used to be decorative office plants.”

Ricardo relaxed his shoulders against the backrest as best as he could in between moments in which he had to brace himself, as the cart swung around the corners. “It should’ve been a baseball field!”

Cole and Bitboi Leroy's ears were caught by the electric sound of crop dusters, janitors in slow fan-wing backpacks floating over the fields while spraying chemicals. Spider-legged robots the size of hounds picked their way through rows of strawberries in dutiful stride.

Vance gazed at the road and pillars, and explained, “These pathways are just shy of the width needed for two-way traffic. Half the time there’s no guard rail and little room for driver errors. Hang on, we're almost there!”

Bitboi Leroy began to howl at the twists and turns of the ride, and attempted to clamber over Ricardo's shoulder. Ricardo shrieked in a childishly high pitch, then broke into a forced tough-guy chuckle.

“Get off me, you big gorilla!” Ricardo spat in a mix of joy and outrage.

Cole couldn't stop laughing, and even Vance allowed himself to have a genuine chuckle at the rowdiness. Bitboi Leroy disentangled himself from Ricardo's seat belt, returned to the rear of the cart and resentfully buckled himself in. He pulled a banana out of Cole’s rucksack and happily peeled it. As Bitboi enjoyed his treat Cole’s belly growled with hunger. Vance arrived at wide garage doors. The doors ahead of them split left and right, with wide metal gates disappearing like closet doors. The space opened up like a grand cathedral, Cole felt like a tic tac being swallowed by a blue whale. A wide, deep swimming pool took up most of the area. In the middle of it an unusually large dome rose out of the water .

Cole asked, “Is that a space station?”

“Just a replica.” Vance replied.

“For Saturn?” Cole guessed.

With a glint of teeth, Vance Black gossiped to them quietly. “Oh no no. What you guys are traveling to Saturn in is so much stranger than that. Come on!”

With the golf cart parked, Vance emerged from the driver's seat and motioned for the others to follow him. Two armed guards in starched uniforms attended the sides of a metal detector in front of an identification device. On the surface, the outline of a palm on a blue background indicated what to do, so they each placed their hands on the surface. When Vance placed his hand on the screen, curious dots formed around his hand. When he removed his hand from the interface, his face and name showed up on the screen.The guards ushered him forward.

One said, “Good morning, sir.” The guard turned around to touch some buttons on the wall. Cole noticed how the guard’s suspenders were crossed on his back, forming an X. 

Vance nodded back to him, “Morning, Harris. Big day.”

Harris looked at his watch and said, “Yup. Break time. Gonna hit the head and call my wife. Francis here will take care of you.”

Cole noticed that there was no wedding band on the guard’s finger, but his head was buzzing with anticipation for the mission. He was distracted by the fact that the Federation would hire a guard named Francis. He must’ve been the toughest kid on the block, he thought to himself.

The other guard stepped forward to attend to Ricardo at the scanner. The screen blipped green. Ricardo peered back and quipped, “Yahtzee!”

Cole's hand lit up green, and he started to think about what Vance's 'big day' would entail. His thoughts were interrupted by an alarm blaring from nearby speakers embedded in the walls. Bitboi Leroy's attempts at touching the screen caused it to flash red, no matter which hand he placed on it. His attempts became more and more frantic. Francis came forward with a upheld hand, and Cole's heart sank. The blank expression on Francis’ face told Cole nothing; yet with a simple motion, the guard removed a card from a lanyard around his neck and placed it on the screen. The device flashed green. The guard muttered, “Don't worry, fellas. No mistaking that monkey for anyone else. All clear.”

Cole picked up Bitboi and headed towards the big metal gate past the guards. “Thanks for not using your claws on that machine back there, little buddy.”

Bitboi hooted in relief. Vance tapped his foot impatiently. The solid steel bulkhead door hissed and opened sideways.

Ricardo whistled. “On a budget, eh, Vance? Looks like you splurged on the new addition! Impressive!”

The gate opened to a hallway with another identical metal bulkhead on the other side. Once they were all inside, the one behind sealed shut, and the one ahead rumbled open. Vance led the trio into a vast aircraft hangar. In here the thrum of fans and machinery filled the air with noises. In the center of the room an unusual object caught Cole's attention. A nine foot circular machine atop a platform spun in all directions, with rings rotating inside of larger rings, with a jarring distortion of light rippling around a dark object in the middle. 

To Cole the whole thing looked like an old medical device. He wondered aloud, “Is this some kind of magnetic containment?”

The thing floating in the middle reflected absolutely no light at all. Above the rings, an array of long metal tubes of different widths in a dome-like frame hung from the ceiling. They were all pointing at the dark rock, and the arrangement reminded of a balled-up hedgehog. He could see that they were all capped by black boxes with wires ascending to a point at which all the wires bundled together atop an overhead hoist, which disappeared into the darkness above. Deep shadows were cast by the machine's brilliant whirling lights.

Cole was overwhelmed by the number of worktables in the area, all shrouded in contraptions, sensors, canisters and coils. Cole was also baffled by the insane amount of humming tubes, which absolutely swarmed the place. But, above all, the pungent smell of fresh factory rubber and ozone permeated the air.Monitors displayed sine waves and beeped, reminding Cole of an operating room, and the thought sent shivers down his spine.At a bay of computer screens, a lone engineer sat focused at a control panel, sipping coffee between taking bites of a hoagie, while another technician monitored an adjacent setup.

Beyond the screens, a group of metal spheres rotated on top of spindles. Hives of copper coils were stacked below them in hex-shaped formations. The group of metal spheres surrounded the perimeter of the swirling gyroscope. The entire thing was overshadowed by the massive, floating chunk of Dark Matter. It reminded Cole of an inverted, dark iceberg. The midnight-colored object held Cole's attention in its grasp. Bitboi's eyes also gleamed, fixated on the floating stone. He pointed to it with two arms while clinging to Cole with the others.

Vance pointed at it with his whole arm. “Do you remember this, Captain Nova?”

Ricardo subtly elbowed Cole in the ribs, whispering as he leaned forward, “You're not going to find that at De Beers.”

Cole shrugged off the elbowing, even though it actually hurt quite a bit, and forced a laugh. “If you have to ask, you can't afford it!”

Vance shouted, “What's that?”

“How could I forget such an amazing substance? It makes you feel sort of like you’re outside of your body when you're near it, like you’re in a dream.” Cole replied.

Vance’s expression told Cole he wasn’t alone in this experience and shouted, “What you see before you is an extraction device. It cradles the Dark Matter like a pair of gloves on your hands. You can't touch the stuff directly.”

Cole inquired, “Kind of like handling dry ice?”

Vance nodded. “Good analogy! Technically those spheres use piezoelectrics and acoustics to propagate a field through an electrified shell. It creates gravity waves. Controlling them in a grid allows us to work with Dark Matter. But yes, the dry ice analogy is a better explanation.”

Vance pointed to the tubes overhead. “Those are the eleventh harmonic resonators for the whirligig over there. They make it efficient.”

Ricardo whistled in awe.

Vance continued, “Just like a digital camera, we made gravity wave emitters in a grid, like pixels for polarization. Through that, we keep that mineral sample intact. We kept it in the same gas it was brought in with, but that didn't keep it from evaporating. Saturn has some unexpected fields we're just now learning how to interface with, but I like to give credit where credit's due. Leave it to Kyle to solve the puzzle.”

Cole exclaimed, “The quiet guy that gave Bitboi the banana?”

Ricardo observed, “What a strange fellow.”

Vance gave Ricardo a cautious look. “You’ll be meeting with him soon. Pay close attention to what he teaches you, this mission wouldn’t be possible without his engineering. He’s a genius. We owe the gravity wave emitter development to Gomez, and he says he owes it to the inventor Salvatore Pais, the new Nikola Tesla of our day. We stand on the shoulders of giants, gentlemen. Giants, and just in the nick of time.”

Ricardo nodded hard. Cole nodded harder, thinking of Emily.

Vance crept closer to the trio. “Come with me.”

They shuffled to a nearby restroom so they could hear themselves talk. Vance leaned in, speaking in a conspiratorial tone.

“What you're about to hear is top secret. This doesn't go any further. Am I clear?” Vance demanded.The presence of urinal cakes and the smell of Pine-Sol betrayed the seriousness of the moment.

Ricardo joked, “This won’t leave the stalls.”

Vance, shaking off the joke. He whispered, as if he were revealing his grade-school crush, and said, “We didn't know it at the time, but we discovered that Dark Matter harbored a very intriguing secret: it cures symptoms of gravity sickness. Just you marinate on that.”

For the first time in a long time Cole felt like he was in the right place. 

Cole said to Vance, “It looks like it's working for you.”

Vance brightened. “Astute, Mr. Nova. As a matter of fact, you're looking at the first patient on Earth. Me!”

Cole and Ricardo took in what they'd just heard.

Ricardo burst out, “That lump of Santa's coal out there cures gravity sickness?!”

Vance held up a hand in admonishment.“Yes, but it turns out that I'm not the very first case. That honor belongs to you, Cole.”

Cole considered this. “Hmmm. I'd figured it was the cocktail of drugs injected into me by the Federation over the years that kept me from getting the sickness.”

Vance shook his head grimly. “We looked at you and the rest of your surviving crew and noticed a correlation between ‘Astros’ that came down with the sickness and those that didn’t. That included the mechanics that recovered the debris from your crash, All of you were spared from the symptoms and illness. I was the first person to intentionally expose myself to Dark Matter after falling ill to gravity sickness.”

Ricardo asked, “Why not get this out to the public?”

“We only have one usable sample left. Our scientists were too eager to reap the rewards of the Dark Matter. By the time they understood its potential, fatal mistakes had already been made.”

Ricardo inquired, “Where are those scientists now?”

Vance cast his gaze at the tile floor. In a gloomy tone he shared, “Too much of a good thing. There’s a science to getting just enough exposure to Dark matter but not too much. We found the line between medicine and poison during our first round of volunteers. I got lucky.”

Cole felt the guilt pulling toward him. “I brought the sample back to Earth, so I have to share some of the blame for that. I should reach out to their families.”

Vance jolted upright and scoffed, “To what end? Do you really need to reopen wounds? They knew what they were signing up for.”

Emotion caught in Cole’s throat.“I'm sorry, Mr. Black.”

Vance took a deep breath. “I think, all things considered, I can definitely forgive you, I at least owe you dinner.”

Cole felt the tension between them break. “This is a good thing, isn't it?”

Vance looked each man in the eye and stated, “Call it serendipity.”

Ricardo asked with anxious curiosity, “How did they break through the sample? Lasers? Plasma?”

Vance said, “If you didn't need to know this I couldn't tell you, but now, since we're all in the club... We used focused gravity like a laser to break through the sample. The Dark Matter has a kind of critical mass, and once it is broken apart it does not go back together. It's most useful when intact. It lasts a lot longer that way, but we need much more to have a chance of offering it to the public. The samples can vaporize, making the cure scarcer and scarcer.”

Vance frowned. “Not all the engineers have clearance to be close to it. Almost none of them know about it, and those who do are sworn to secrecy. This is still super classified. Am I clear?”

Cole and Ricardo reluctantly responded, “Yes sir.” With their compliance, Vance went on.

“Good. Our analysts have identified a few likely spots for you to harvest the Dark Matter, and we'll go over the maps tomorrow.”

He leaned in between both men and whispered,

“Think of it this way. That little black rock you found while sampling the liquid surface was just a guppy.”

Cole gulped. “A guppy? Like a fish?”

“Yeah. And you’ll be hunting for Moby Dick out there.”

Ricardo asked, “Are we going fishing, then?”

Vance beamed, “Yes, and you're going in one hell of a boat!”

Chapter 11

5 Star Rooms

With Bitboi on his back Cole and Ricky followed Vance Black and climbed in the cart attaching their seatbelts. As they headed back to the dorms and cafeteria Cole peered into one of the rooms, and noticed a server array practically dripping with wires. 

Vance dropped them off in front of their dorm. “Dinner is at 18:00 in the cafeteria further down the hall. That gives you forty minutes to stow your bags and shave.Thank you gentlemen. Looking forward to hearing about your training tomorrow.” With a grim nod they grabbed their bags that had been dropped off in front of the dorm and shuffled inside. Bitboi frantically searched Cole’s rucksack until he found his toy stuffed alligator.

Cole and Ricardo scoped out their dorm room. Two twin sized beds sat low beside white painted brick walls and a small dog bed with a hospital style blanket folded on it. On one of the beds, three jumpsuits with Federation patches lay folded. One was smaller and featured more sleeves than usual, with a button-snap pajama flap and a hole for a tail. There were also two key cards on lanyards.

The overhead lights hummed with sour fluorescence. Ricardo stowed his bag and laid down for a nap. Cole took Bitboi Leroy to the bathroom and washed him up. The monkey instantly grabbed the shampoo bottle and strove to wrench the cap open to drink it. 

Cole snagged it away from him, chiding Bitboi. “Not today, Satan!”

Bitboi hooted in dismay, yet the shower head provided ample water to drink and spit and spin in, so that was good enough for him.

Once Cole had managed to extract the enthusiastic beast from the bathtub, he bundled up the little fellow in towels and set him on the bathroom floor to dry off. Then he hopped in the shower himself and enjoyed the noise of the hot water in silence.

After shaving he tried on his jumpsuit. It fit heavy around the shoulders. He clasped and tightened the built-in belt. Cole noticed his own familiar face in the mirror's reflection. He noticed wrinkles around his eyes, and remembered the same face in a similar suit so many years before.

It was here that Cole had a chance to let down his guard, Bitboi was nestled in a blanket on the floor and Ricky was fast asleep. The weight of his past and the concern for Emily hit him in the chest. He held the towel to his face to stifle the hot, salty tears that crept down his cheeks.

Bitboi Leroy had found his way out of his puffy towel cocoon and hugged Cole's leg. Cole couldn't help but lift him up and hug him tightly.

“You and me, buddy. We're going to save the world. We're going to save Emily.” Cole said.

Bitboi chirped and whistled, then pointed with three hands to be lowered.

It was 17:30, and Ricardo was snoring logs. Cole sat on his bunk and let his mind drift about nothing in particular for the next 20 minutes or so. When he realized they were close to dinner time he motioned for his fury companion to rustle Ricky from his slumber. Bitboi crawled over and shook Ricardo gently, and he stirred, half-awake.

“I don't want to work today, Lorena. Lemme kiss that big beautiful belly of yours. Wha-?” Ricky mumbled. He gradually became aware of his surroundings and opened his eyes. There was no Lorena; just a monkey with four arms making obscene gestures at him, who was mock-kissing the air.

Cole tossed Ricardo a jumpsuit. “Suit up, buckaroo. Dinner time.”

While Ricky changed outfits, Cole stepped out into the hall and pulled out his phone. He called the contact that appeared the most on his recent calls list. A voice bright with anticipation answered.

“Hello, Cole?” Sharon blurted out.

“Hey, Babe, how are you doing?” Cole asked.

“You know me, just waiting for the next shipment of contraband to arrive.” she said.

Knowing that this call was likely being monitored given the circumstances and that Sharon would be trolling as always, he played along. “Still selling counterfeit candy bars to those kids at the orphanage?”

“They can’t get enough of my ‘Snicketeers’ and ‘Kit-Kotz’, I’m gonna squeeze every dime outa those little cusses.” she stated.

“Who cares if the chocolate has used motor oil in it?” he jested.

“It’s the trace of lead that really gets ‘em hooked.” Sharon added. “Well, how’s space camp?”

“A lot’s changed since I’ve been here, looks like they’re sending us out for a chunk of time.” he emphasized the last word.

“So, chronologically speaking, you guys might be leaving in the next week or so?” Sharon picked up on the hint of the word ‘time’ and followed with ‘chronologically’ as a nod to chronos, the Greek god of time. In the Roman traditions, this god was called Saturn.

“Maybe, but you know I can’t talk about the mission in detail.” he affirmed her guess. “Do you remember that time we went out to the west desert deer hunting?”

They had never been deer hunting together, and she knew that he was talking about rockhounding. They were both passionate about finding unique rocks and minerals.

“Do you remember the last hunt when I brought back that buck with the really shiny eyes?” he nudged.

Sharon knew he was trying to express something about his last mission to Saturn. She remembered the strange flakes of black iridescent rock lodged into the tread of his boots that he’d smuggled home. The mineral seemed to swallow light and at the same time had an amazing reflection like the rainbow swirls of oil on top of water. She also remembered how Cole had tried to make her a centerpiece for a necklace out of it. It had sort of diminished slowly over the course of a few days and eventually it completely disappeared. It was shortly after her son had surrendered to gravity sickness. Cole was trying desperately to be comforting and was frustrated that the gift had not worked out.

“Do you remember how unfortunately the meat from that buck spoiled?” Cole continued. Sharon was stirred from the memory that had pulled her away mentally and noticed tears dripping down her face. She brushed them aside even though there was no one around her.

“Yes. That was too bad.” she replied, now paying close attention again.

“Wouldn’t it’ve been great if everyone had a chance to try some of that meat? It probably would’ve been some of the healthiest food ever.” he said.

Sharon thought of what he might be getting at. “You mean like, nutrition wise?”

“If I had the chance, I would definitely have brought some over to Emily to cheer her up.” Cole answered.

“You’re saying it could cheer her all the way up?” Sharon asked.

“Not just Emily,” he paused “Nick too”. Cole was trying to be as reverent and intentional with his tone as possible.

At the mention of her late son Sharon felt the wind knocked out of her. “That would’ve really been something” the tears flowed again and she made no effort to wipe them away this time. Could he really be telling her that the strange mineral he had brought back with him could save Emily, could save everyone?

“I’m gonna try to get another buck on my next hunting trip. I’ll try to bring back enough to share with as many people as possible.” he said.

“Well if anyone can do it, you can. I believe in you Cole Nova, I always have.” Sharon stated.

Very few times in Cole’s life had he felt so validated. Ricky broke this moment as he opened the door behind Cole announcing, “Let’s eat.”

“I gotta go, Love ya” Cole said as Ricky made a soft awww face.

“Love you too, bye.” Sharon hung up.

Bitboi followed behind Ricky and the three of them headed down the hall towards the chow hall.



Chapter 12


An Urgent Matter

The chow hall of the Federation Space Center was about what you would imagine. The room was lined with white cabinets and aluminum trim. Sterile white in color, with long tables and attached benches. Battalions of bowls and flatware greeted guests at the entrance of the cafeteria serving line.

The massive coffee station at the end of the line stuck out like a sore thumb. People buzzed around like bees, grasping cups and sugar packets with apparent desperation. There was a cooler with an energy drink logo beside it, with one or two dented cans hiding on the back shelf. Cole made a mental note to keep Bitboi away from that corner of the room. Across from the coffee station, three storage shelves rested, filled with totes containing transparent, vacuum-sealed, mushy food packages with small print on them.

Cole, Ricardo and Bitboi entered through double doors from the hall. Bitboi ambled and hopped along to keep up with their strides. A woman of Asian descent approached them. She wore a red button-up blouse and black skirt. She gestured for them to come closer.

“Mr. Nova, Mr. Corazon, and hi! Who's this little guy?”asked the woman.

She stretched out her hands to let Bitboi Leroy sniff her, and he eagerly clambered over Cole's shoulder and snuggled into her arms.

Cole began to answer, but Ricardo interrupted him. “That's Bitboi Leroy. He has six limbs.”

“I can see that. He's so cute I could gobble him up. I want to smush that little face of his. So cute. How old is he?” she asked.

Before Cole could answer, Bitboi shot out three limbs, holding up thirteen fingers in total. His face beamed with pride.

Still holding Bitboi like an infant, she shook each of their hands. “Hi, I'm Sarah Joy. I'm your nutrition coordinator. For you astronauts, we have a food pantry system, so just take what you like from each of the bins. This is exactly the kind of food you'll be eating up there, so we want you to get used to the packaging and delivery.”

Ricardo said, “It never tastes the same up there. I usually just go for texture. Come on, Cole!”

He hastened over to the bins eagerly and snatched several pouches.

Cole followed him, and pored over the packs. “These were in different packaging when I was flying.”

“Go for the corn stuffing. You can't go wrong with the corn stuffing. I'm getting the beans and tortillas. You never know what you like here that will taste alright up there. The calorie bars are awesome if you don't care about flavor.” Ricky declared.

“Whiskey has all but fried my taste buds. I'll take whatever they have.” Cole replied.

“Well you're not drinking now, and your sense of taste might come back. Here, try one of these.” Ricardo tossed him an opaque gray packet labeled “Apple Cinnamon”. “Variety is the spice of life, Cole. The spice of life.”

Cole glanced around the cafeteria. Engineers lined up at tables, scarfing down Salisbury steaks and potatoes, Hawaiian rolls, and other savory dishes.

Cole brought extra packs for Bitboi back to Sarah Joy and inquired, “So only the astronauts get the real grub?”

She nodded and returned Bitboi to him. As she passed him over, she casually rested her hand on Cole's shoulder. She met his gaze and looked softly back at him a little too long, with the corner of a smile turning up. “If you ever need a monkey-sitter, you know, when you get back, you give me a call.”

Cole felt his heartbeat speeding up, and he noticed that it was difficult to swallow. “I have a girlfriend.”

“Well, let me know if that changes, Captain Nova.” She smiled again at him, and wandered off.

Ricardo didn't miss a beat, and chimed in. “Not enough meat on the bones.”

Cole chuckled. “You're insufferable, Ricardo. You know that?”

They shared a laugh, and sat down to tear through their meal packs. At another table, one of the engineers suddenly slumped over his meal. Another engineer ran over, checked his pulse, and exclaimed, “He's dead!”

Another muttered, “Another one.”

Calls for medics and an ambulance echoed through the hall. One engineer rushed over to a phone on the wall. “Yes, we have a situation. Same as last week. Yes. Bring the coroner.”

Cole and Ricardo left their seats to go see what was happening. Ricardo implored, to no one in particular, “Gravity sickness?”

Cole observed the haggard faces around him. Each face carried the weight of long sleepless nights and overwork, yet there was something more here.

“How many of you have it?” he demanded of them all.

Kyle Gomez was among them, and he arose to speak. “All of us. All of us have it, Mr. Nova.”

Cole gritted his teeth. “Then there's no time to lose, is there?”

Kyle shook his head gravely. Cole and Ricardo regarded one another and nodded, feeling the importance of why they were here. Bitboi, sensing they were about to leave, grabbed as many food packs as he could from the table before Cole snatched him up.

Cole asked Kyle, “Is the training center open tonight?”




































Chapter 13

Tech and Philosophy



With a renewed sense of urgency and a rising pulse, Ricardo and Cole hustled, with Bitboi in hand, to one of the doors that read, ‘TRAINING’. With the swipes of their key cards and a beep, the black lockbox clacked open. A bay of computers sat before them, they each logged into a workstation. The interfaces seemed familiar enough when compared to the systems they'd used in the past. Cole and Ricardo studied late into the night on their ship's features and controls. The technology looked totally alien to them.

Cole pointed to a diagram: 

A starship's gravity and propulsion systems are crucial components for enabling interstellar travel.

Gravity System:

A starship's gravity system utilizes advanced technology to simulate the gravitational pull of a planet or moon, providing artificial gravity for the crew and passengers on board. This system typically involves the use of graviton generators, which can generate a field that simulates gravity. The strength of the field can be adjusted to match the gravity of different celestial bodies, allowing the crew to adapt to various environments.

Propulsion System:

The propulsion system of a star ship is responsible for generating the necessary thrust to propel the vessel through space. One commonly used propulsion system is the warp drive, which creates a bubble of space-time around the ship and compresses the space in front of it while expanding the space behind it. This allows the ship to move faster than the speed of light, effectively bypassing the limitations of Einstein's theory of relativity. Another propulsion system is the ion drive, which utilizes charged particles to generate thrust. This system is less powerful than a warp drive but is more efficient and can be used for long-term space travel. Additionally, some starships may utilize a combination of propulsion systems to achieve the desired level of speed and efficiency.

Cole planted his finger on a spot on the screen, labeled 'Eleventh Harmonic Sonic Tubes'. “What are these? What the hell is the eleventh harmonic? What do these do?”

“No clue.” Ricardo mumbled.

“And what are these? Microwave Electromagnetic Drive? Microwave Plasma Thrusters? What the hell happened to good old hydrogen peroxide and basic chemistry?” Cole queried.

“Won't get us there fast enough I guess. Hey, look at this giant hole on the nose of the ship. God, it looks so weird. 'Harvesting scoop'? Looks like we'll be flying through Saturn and harvesting stuff with a big shop vac.” Ricky added.

The door cracked open. Kyle poked his head through. “Gentlemen, I hope I'm not disturbing your studies.”

Cole replied, “Not at all!” He checked the clock, which read 9:40 PM.

Kyle seemed hesitant. “Good, good. I, uh, I wanted to see if you have any questions.”

Ricardo grumbled, “Look, I don't want to seem stupid, you know? I bowl a 300 on the regular. I can land a broken shuttle safely in Detroit and still make it home. Hell, for deep philosophy I even take time to read Calvin and Hobbes. But this? Give it to me straight, doc. Sonic tubes? Eleventh harmonic?”

Kyle dug around in his pockets as if looking for something. “The, uh, the harmonics are modulators for the gravity systems.”

He could see by Ricardo's expression that he might as well have been speaking Greek, so he elaborated. “Like, uh, you know how you have enzymes that help you break down food in your stomach? They allow the body to break down food at a cooler temperature than fire. The sonic tubes play different tones that help move and shape gravity. Picture the enzymes in your stomach moving and shaping the food. We're doing that with sonic tubes and gravity.”

Ricardo observed, “Kind of like how when an opera singer breaks a glass with their voice?”

“Exactly!” Kyle exclaimed. “You find the room frequency of a given object, then play a tone eleven octaves higher, and it separates the object.”

Ricardo gloated at his victory. “Got one.”

Pointing to the ship diagram, he asked, “And what about this BS? Microwave Plasma Drive?”

Kyle lit up. “Ah, the microwave plasma drive. It's like a jet engine and microwave had a baby, but you wouldn't want to leave a baby anywhere near it.” Ricardo breathed in the information, and motioned for Kyle to carry on.

Kyle explained further, “The microwave takes helium gas and bombards it with energy. When this happens the helium molecules get ripped apart, and that creates hot helium plasma.”

Cole interjected, “Which acts like a rocket.”

Ricardo stiffened his posture and mimed pulling an imaginary pipe from his pocket. He placed the invisible pipe in his mouth, and lit it with a fake match. In the worst British accent imaginable, he bellowed, “Using a waveguide for photons to ionize particles into a higher state, thereby producing heat and thrust? Well, I never!”

Kyle was taken aback. “It's elementary, dear Watson! You said you couldn't understand the technology.”

Ricardo reclined in his chair smugly. “Solar sails are pretty self-evident.”

Cole commented, “Yeah, that is just amazing. It reminds me of something my old history teacher once taught us. For over six thousand years humans have used sailing ships. In a way, we'll be no different from that first overconfident caveman that looked across the sea and thought it would take too long to swim across it, and lashed some logs together.”

Kyle nodded. “Some things never change, Mr. Nova. The human spirit is truly daring. People might forget all about the sailing ships humanity made well before the ice age. They might even forget how old the pyramids really are, or just how many times our species has risen from the ashes of calamity, natural or otherwise.”

Ricardo gave him a sideways glance. “What are you, an ancient alien conspiracy theorist?”

Kyle rolled his eyes. “I don't claim to know anything. Look at it this way. My favorite professor had three PhD's, and told me that the key to solving new problems was to forget everything he thought he knew at the drop of a hat, if it meant making new discoveries.”

Ricardo grunted his disapproval.

Cole leaned over in defense. “Forget everything I know? With all due respect, Mr. Gomez, if I did that I wouldn't know how to fly a ship, and then I couldn't do this mission.”

Kyle offered him a warm smile. “Hasn’t some part of your knowledge always been in you? Now, if the voices of the past did nothing more than remind you who you really are, you would already know the answer, wouldn't you?”

Cole felt the gravity of Kyle's words, as if they were weighing on his shoulders. It was as if screaming ghosts rang in his ears, and he felt his heart drop. Kyle took note of the effect, and drove deeper.“Let's take you as an example, Mr. Nova. Even though you're a pilot, why haven't you been flying for five years? What would you have done differently all this time, if it were your choice? And really, whose choice is it?”

Cole gasped, suddenly aware of how hollow he'd felt being secluded at the cabin. Charged emotions welled up from his belly, resonating through his chest, but got caught in his throat. “I...” he stammered.

Ricardo stepped in. “What are you even talking about, Kyle?”

Kyle turned to Ricardo. “What is it about competition that fills your cup? When is it healthy? If it were up to you, what legacy would you like to leave? And what would your choices look like? I mean, you could have been a regular Joe, right? What would these new choices reveal about Ricardo?”

Ricardo scoffed. “Enough with your game of twenty questions! I'm just here to do my job.”

“Are you? Are you just here to do a job, Ricardo? Now, you both saw Darius Medina die today at the dinner table. He had no family, and only a few friends. Yet he helped develop many of these systems that will benefit humanity for generations. Again, if it were up to you, what legacy would you like to leave, Mr. Corazon?”

Cole and Ricardo felt stunned by the machine gun list of questions.

Kyle bowed to them graciously, and said, “Anywho. Must be going.” Without another word, he left and gently closed the door.





































Chapter 14

Ryan Who?

Sharon sat uneasily on the train's chairs. Old gum and mystery stains covered the steel seats. She frowned at the thought that she somehow missed the stained old cushioned seats at Cole's cabin.

Her nose wrinkled in disgust. “If it's going to be stained, it might as well be comfortable.”

Opposite her, sat an elderly couple with grocery bags. The old man wore a derby hat and checkerboard green vest. The lady wore a scarf around her head, and Sharon wondered if they might be from Eastern Europe.

At a stop, the doors slid aside and a single passenger walked in. Sharon noticed the man when he came through the door. His skeletal frame did its best to fill in a black sport coat. His white dress shirt was tucked into pants with a buckle a half inch off center. A bulge under his armpit betrayed a poorly-concealed firearm.

Even though the train cabin was mostly empty, he opted to sit down right beside her. As the train lurched into motion the unprepared passengers were jostled. The suited man pulled out a newspaper and began to read it upside-down, as if she wouldn't notice. She took the opportunity to glare at him, then stood up, grasped her purse, and made her way across the swaying galley.

He got up with a flustered sigh, and walked slowly towards her. His left hand was held out low and exposed, as if in a peace offering.

“You don't recognize me, do you?” he asked.

















Chapter 15


Oh! That Ryan.

Sharon did not, in fact, recognize the scarecrow of a man. “No.” she stated flatly. Her collar itched, and she could feel the heat of her irritation building up.

“You're hard to track down, Sharon Teez.” he said.

She took note of his freshly-shaven face and absurd amount of hair gell. He couldn't be more than twenty five, she thought.

She brightened, adding a cough syrup sweetness to her voice. “Would you be opposed to telling me your name, stranger?”

“I, uh. Greenbaum.” he stammered.

Her tone turned icy. “Who sent you, 'I, uh, Greenbaum'?”

“I'm afraid I can't disclose that information. I-” he started.

She cut him off with serrated sarcasm, “Then I guess we're done talking right now. Aren't we, 'I, uh, Greenbaum'?”

He huffed. “Miss, I am to bring you to the Federal Council immediately.” as he drew out his badge.

It read RYAN GREENBAUM, FEDERAL COUNCIL POLICE.

She folded her arms in dismay. “Am I under arrest?”

“Not exactly. Miss, I-” he tried again.

It was time to use her stunning irises to their best effect. Just as she had practiced in the mirror a thousand times, she stated her question as if it were an answer, “Then am I free to go.”

Greenbaum pursed his lips. “By the authority invested in me by the Federal Council, I am taking you into protective custody.”

Sharon slumped her shoulders, playing the role of a defeated woman. “Can I at least stop by my place and get my things?”

She anticipated his answer precisely.

Greenbaum noted, “A team has already gathered your possessions.”

She proceeded, “Are you going to force me to go if I say no?”

“Technically, yes.” he said.

Her mental knife was getting close to making her point.“What would John Galt say?”

“Who's John Galt?” he asked sincerely.

“Are you serious right now? Did you really just say that?” Sharon was sure he was trolling her.

“There’s no ‘John Galt’ in my chain of command! Don’t try confusing me by name dropping. My orders come from on top.” he insisted

“Fine. I'll go, but no cuffs.”she stated,”We might want to swing by the library if there’s time.”

She held out her wrists as if to suggest that he should cuff her, his brain froze and struggled for a moment with the mismatch between her words and gesture.

With her arms dropping down by her sides, she jested, “Oh, Greenbaum, when will you set yourself free? Baaa-aah little sheep.”

As the train doors opened, the platform looked empty. Sharon stepped off the train with Greenbaum in tow. They headed down stairs. The parking lot lay ahead.

Greenbaum commented, “You know, we met before at a conference. Do you remember?”

Sharon glanced at him sideways. “Naw. Really?”

“Yes,” he wagged a finger at her accusingly as he walked. “Now, should I call you 'Sharon Teez' or should I call you “Dr. Jones?”

Sharon felt her guts turn, but she held a strong front. With a coy smile she brushed her hair out of her eyes. “You can call me Sharon.”

Greenbaum made eye contact with her. “Obviously you were pretending to be a doctor that day. But I'm an investigator, Sharon. I remember everything.”

Sharon's resolve was solid, and she held her gaze and voice steady. “That's funny. I really don't remember you at all.”

As his anger rose, his cheeks went crimson. “The elevator?... Twenty fifth floor?... My pants around my ankles?!”.... At this point his voice cracked and veins bulged on his rather large forehead. “I had a legitimate medical concern, and you made a jackass out of me! You left me there holding a sucker while the whole conference hall laughed and gawked at me.” Greenbaum heaved in exasperation..

Sharon took this moment to search her brain for this particular event. This was a common occurrence, actually more of a hobby. She would run into an idiot or a liar and would see how far she could push the bit before people realized what was going on. It was the awkward silence on the elevator that day that gave him away. She could picture the wood paneling as her mind retrieved this particular episode. Her memories came back in a rush and it played like a movie in her mind.



































Chapter 16

Trolling Agent Ryan

It had to have been 5 or 6 years ago. What was the name of that Hotel? There was no music in the elevator. The tension between the lanky young man with the unfortunately big forehead and Sharon had proven too much. He broke the ice with an obvious, “Here for the convention?”

“I'm pretty sure everyone staying at the hotel is,” she replied. She kept her eyes impatiently on the door.

The eager fellow droned on, “I'm here as part of my undergraduate research. Great speakers today.”

Sharon had no idea what the conference was for, or what the presentations would be about. She was here to meet with a contact, who had promised to have a great source on proton thrusters. There was high demand for those these days, especially ones without the legally-required boiler plate tags.

In her opinion, the boiler plate tags were merely a form of extortion with Alpha Omega Corp as the sole supplier. It was a common rumor that they had lobbied and bribed the necessary politicians and industries to assure their monopoly on said tags.

Proton thrusters without the tags worked just as well, and in some cases even better than the ones with an official stamp. Sharon was most interested in the fact that the knockoffs cost as little as a fifth of the sanctioned ones.

She was tapping her fingers, waiting for the elevator to hurry up. This connection could mean a pipeline of cash over the next decade or two. Of course she'd need a source for the black market tags, but she knew the market would provide a source. Maybe even the very same factory that sold the tags to Alpha Omega Corp.

As Sharon was putting her business plan together in her mind, the annoying voice intruded her thoughts once again.

“I do have another reason for attending “Med Edge'.” he offered.

She thought to herself, Med Edge. That must be the name of the conference.

“Oh?” she lamely fed.

The young man replied quickly, “I've been researching ways to bulk up and achieve my natural form.”

Natural form? She thought.

He continued, “I have great genes! My grandfather was Mr. Olympic of 2030.”

Sharon compared the form of a body builder to this clothes-rack of a person that stood before her.

He was painfully aware that she was staring at him.

“Obviously there must be a medical reason I can't get jacked.” he stated.

Sharon let the poor phrasing pass with an inside laugh. She decided this was one of those moments she would turn boredom into fun. Well, fun for her, at least. “I actually specialize in muscle enhancement. My private practice caters to a small group of bodybuilders.”

“REALLY?” The human light pole couldn't believe his luck.

Sharon took a step closer to him. “Have you heard of 'Muscle Detach Syndrome'?”

He gasped, “Muscle Detach Syndrome?”

She had him on the hook. “Well, MDS for short. It keeps your muscles from properly attaching to your skeleton, and this keeps your muscles from developing to their natural size.”

She motioned across his body like she was Vanna White on the old show Wheel of Fortune.

His face gleamed with hope. “No, I haven't heard of it. Where can I get tested?”

Sharon kept calm, but inwardly felt cruel delight. “Luckily for you, it's easily diagnosed by a simple physical exam. There's an obvious marking of spots on a person's lower back. The spots are equally spaced apart, but they can be hard to recognize without proper training.”

“Uh, are you accepting new patients?” he asked in desperation.

“No, unfortunately we are at full capacity. I admire your commitment though, so I'm going to do you a favor. I will examine you right here and now.” Sharon offered.

Shock and excitement hit him like a wave.

“I need you to lift up your shirt and show me your lower back.” she requested.

Suddenly more anxious, the man blurted, “My shirt?”

“Go ahead, nothing to be embarrassed about. I'm a doctor. I see these things all the time. Go ahead and turn around. Your shirt, please.”

His eyes darted in every direction, as if looking for an escape. “Uh, alright,” he murmured, untucking his shirt from his trousers. He lifted it up past his shoulders.

She looked closely at the pale skin on his long back. She thought to herself, cannibals would starve with this guy. “Ah, I'm not seeing them yet. Could you lower your belt please?”

“Lower?” he asked, muffled by the shirt around his head.

Sharon tapped on his spine. “Sometimes the markings are much lower along the spinal column. And you might want to get this scoliosis looked at. Much, much lower. Please lower your belt.”

“Uh, alright.” He went along with her request.

“Lower, please,” she insisted.

Facing away from her, he loosened his belt and unzipped his slacks. He kept his boxers on, of course. “Well, you're the doctor.”

Sharon held his slacks up with one hand. She tugged the waistband of his boxers as if looking near his glutes.

She took note of the current elevator floor. “Almost there,” she stated.

The man asked, his voice quivering with fear, “Do I have them? Do I have the spots?”

Just as the doors dinged and began to open, the slacks fell from her hand, all the way down around his ankles. His boxers were brightly colored with pictures of Arnold Schwarzenegger. When the doors opened, Sharon whistled as if she was calling a far away dog, drawing the attention of fifty or sixty physicians and passers-by in the lobby. They stopped their small group conversations and turned to stare, with more of them looking on in horror as the seconds passed.

The young man raced to pick up his slacks, but had to wrestle through his shirt first. He almost lost his balance while trying to rescue his pants. He sputtered in confusion and rage.

Sharon reached into her coat pocket and retrieved one of many lollipops, and extended it to him as an offering. “Dum Dum?” It was more of a statement than a question.

She strolled out of the elevator, leaving the awkward fool behind her in shambles. As she passed the gawking professionals, she feigned offense. “So direct.”

+++

The memory was again vivid, and Sharon couldn't help but laugh. She took another glance at the scarecrow of a man. “It's true! But come on, I did you a favor. Do you really just go around trusting everyone who calls themselves a doctor?” 

Agent Greenbaum exploded with exasperation, “I almost caught a charge for public indecency! You nearly got me kicked out of the academy!”

He huffed, but mustered himself. “Well, today I am not here about that. I am just the unlucky bastard who got assigned to bring you in.”

Sharon let the silence linger, making him more and more uncomfortable. Finally, Sharon took a shot at him. “Ryan. Can I call you Ryan? Look, I'm not here to judge anyone. But hey, you do you buddy.”

Greenbaum's ears turned a darker shade of red. “I'm just following orders.”

Sharon's eyes narrowed. “You really don't hear yourself talk, do you?”

“My orders may be to bring you in safely, but you should know this. When I get a chance, I'm taking you down. I know you're selling black market parts, Sharon.” Greenbaum threatened.

Sharon knew a trap when she spotted one, and she saw this one coming from a mile away. “Legally speaking, I don't understand a word out of your mouth, boy.”

Agent Greenbaum chortled. “Man, you are one tough lady. Alright, that's cute. You're lucky I'm not working as an investigator today, or you'd be in chains by now.”

“Not a single day of freedom has existed since the start of this country, Ryan. You might be stuck in a story you didn't even write. Call yourself an agent or whatever you want. You're not even a supervisor at the kidnapping store.” Sharon returned.

Greenbaum chafed at the accusation. “That's enough, miss.”

She dug the knife further. “Is it, though? With the stroke of a pen, someone who thinks they should rule over people said that the evil you do is good. But you're just a slave like your friends. Oh my goodness, why am I even talking to a slave like you? Ugh.”

The last remark really got under Greenbaum's skin.

They strode past the awning in the California afternoon sunlight. Amid dozens of cars in the parking lot, Greenbaum led the way. Greenbaum fumbled with his car keys, and dropped them. They jangled and bounced just under the tire of his little boxy car. He reached one of his long arms down to fetch them.

As Sharon reached for the passenger-side handle, she snidely remarked, “They really splurge on you enslavers, don't they?”

Arising from the ground, Greenbaum started, “Now, that's enou-”

A sudden boom cracked through the air, and Greenbaum's throat exploded sideways. His hands rushed to cradle it. A trickle of hot red blood escaped through his hands. As he slumped against the car behind him, a crimson fountain continued down his chest.









Chapter 17

No Imagination

Sharon froze in shock. The world was suddenly colorless. Time seemed to stop, and she could feel nothing except her pulse in her ringing ears. Snapping into autopilot, she dashed around the car to snatch the keys from Greenbaum's lifeless hand. She knew she had to get out of there. By the time she had the bloody keys in hand, she was devising an escape route. Just then, a heavy paw clamped around her mouth. Her screams were silenced as another arm wrapped around her throat. She spotted some bystanders, but they looked on with fascination, yet refused to get involved. Some took off for their own vehicles, screeching their tires to get out of the parking lot.

The first car trying to get out was blocked by the electronic gate, but once that rose three more cars tore out in a row. The third car was scraped badly by the lowering gate, before a fourth car smashed through the bar entirely, clearing the path. Cowards, she thought between gasps for air. She tried to face her attacker, a tall and stocky man in a black tee shirt under a dress jacket. His scarred nose told of a lifetime of violence, and his cheeks were pocced from acne scars. He gripped her wrists tightly with one of his iron vise hands. With the other he pulled the keys out of her fingers, dragging her towards the open lot. A white van pulled up. Its tires chirped as it came to a halt. Just as Sharon surmised, the side door slid open, and a man in tactical gear pointed a submachine gun at her. The burly man took her mobile phone from her, pulled off the protective case, and removed the battery before storing it in one of his pockets.

As she was shoved into the back of the van, Sharon spat, “You people have no imagination! None!”




















CHAPTER 18


Which Cole Are We Getting Up There?


It was 7:42 AM in Texas, and the sun was rising at the Federation Training Center. Cole called his sister.

“Hey, Em, it's me. Hey, just checking in. Are you doing alright? How's the hospital food? Yeah, I can't say much, but it's been wild. I can't say how, but I might be home sooner than I'd thought. Oh, you have to go? Good luck with that blood draw. Alright, love you, sis.”

When Cole was twelve, before he and Marcus came up with their plan to move to Culver City and work at the amusement park, Cole and Marcus had a very different relationship. Marcus’ family was deeply religious, however Marcus himself was a self proclaimed atheist. He'd make rude jokes about “Moses' magical stick”. Cole laughed because the jokes were rude and funny, and he'd never get away with telling jokes like that at home.

When Marcus wasn’t around, Cole would complain to their mutual friend, Daniel about Marcus. Cole would go on about how stupid Marcus was for not believing. One day, Daniel ratted Cole out to Marcus, and Marcus was livid. He approached Cole at his locker in between classes, and shoved him hard. Marcus demanded, “You think I’m stupid?!”

Cole didn't know why Marcus was mad, and it never occurred to him that Daniel had snitched about him gossiping. Before he knew it, Marcus had tripped him and was choking Cole. Students gathered around to enjoy the fight. With Marcus' heavy body crushing him, and heavy hands around his throat, Cole could barely breathe. It took every effort to reach his right hand up to Marcus’ cheek. Desperately he tried to jam his thumb into his attacker's eye.

Suddenly, Marcus was pulled off of Cole. Emily stood there, as noble and strong as ever. Marcus looked bewildered, and came back towards Cole to finish him off. But Emily grabbed him by the shoulder and with unnatural strength sent Marcus sprawling. She ordered him, “Stay away from my brother.”

Cole was still dazed, but rose to his feet. Emily came by, gave him a kiss on the cheek, and said, “Never let him do that again.”

Marcus had fled and was nowhere in sight. The bell rang and a few yards away she paused and looked over her shoulder, “.. and quit talkin’ shit.” Cole hurried off to English, still bewildered by what had happened. He thought about that memory from time to time, and it always helped him feel less alone.

Ricardo came out of the doorway to their dorm, “How's your sister doing?”

Cole replied, “Not sure. You know, when protesters were at my house every night of the week, she was the only one who still treated me like a real human being. Knowing she's suffering like this is...”

Ricardo placed a brotherly arm around Cole's shoulders. “You want to hear something? You might think I'm silly after this, but I want to share it with you. Got a moment?” Cole was leery of what Ricardo might say next, but he was all ears.

Ricardo exhaled hard, gulped, and proceeded.

“I have resented you this whole time. I wanted to retire and go bowling with beautiful full figured women. And here you were, pissing away your early retirement. Sure, the unwelcome guests were no picnic, but you survived. See, I can't seem to get away from space flight. I'm up to my eyeballs in debt. If I don't work, I'm screwed, and not in a good way. But you? At least you had your freedom.”

Cole turned to face him. “Ricardo! Why didn't you reach out if you needed help? It may have been a couple of decades since we graduated from the academy, but I'm still your ‘Astro’ bro.”

“Now Cole, no apologies are necessary. Most of my family has moved away or passed on. I don't have what you have. I don't want any bad feelings getting in the way of us succeeding, so I'm getting it off my chest now. When I saw you moping around at that cabin, I felt like you didn’t have the ‘sauce’ man. I'm making it home from this milk run, so tell me now. Are you going to break out there? Or are you going to hold it together for Emily and Sharon?”

Cole asked, “Was that the burr in your saddle this whole time?”

“It's a yes or no question. Are you gonna make the right choice up there? Or are you gonna shatter?” Ricky posed.

“All I can promise you is that I'll give everything I got.” Cole choked.

Ricardo clamped a strong hand on Cole's shoulder, as if to reassure him. “That'll do for now. But you listen hard. I am going to go bowling after this is all said and done, and I will bury my face in the rich bosoms of abundant women. Every day is a new day, Cole Nova. Let's do this.”















Chapter 19

The Closet

In the van, Sharon didn't bother screaming. She knew that nobody would come looking for her yet. She took in her surroundings. The van was hollowed out, except for two bolted-in seats on the side wall. She could feel the pressure of double zip ties on her wrists and ankles. With her hands restrained behind her, she felt every bump and pothole in the road through the cold van floor. The controls and driver were shielded from her view by a perforated steel wall set behind the driver's seat, and dim light scattered through the tiny pinholes.

She could feel the turns and acceleration, but wished she'd been counting the turns since the Bakersfield train station. Now she had no way of knowing where she was. Across from her, two armed men squatted in their seats, watching her. They said nothing to each other, and ignored every word out of her mouth, but that didn't stop her from asking questions.“Who do you work for? How much are they paying you? Are you planning on killing me?”

“Want to hear the dad joke of the week?” she tried.

Nothing she said broke them from their stoic stillness. After what might have been an hour of driving, the light filtering through the driver's cabin went dark.

A parking garage, she thought. “A priest and a rabbit walk into a bar. The bartender says, 'We don't serve animals.' The rabbit says, 'That's alright, I'm probably just a typo.”

Crickets.

The van's angle shifted upwards a few degrees. When it came to a stop, she couldn't be sure if it was one or two floors up from the entry. Her mind was racing for a point of reference. She asked herself what structures were within an hour drive of the train station, and what city she might be in if the van was indeed within a city's limits. She mentally drew a map of an hour's radius around Bakersfield. But with all the variables and possibilities, she knew she'd just have to keep her eyes peeled.

The burly man who'd abducted her in the parking lot pulled out a black fabric bag and placed it over her head, then cinched the neck. She didn't waste her breath squirming or protesting. The bag was hard to breathe through. Presently her leg bindings were cut by one of the men, although she couldn't see them.

One commanded her, “Walk.” The van door slid open, and she felt a hard grip on her right shoulder.

Again the voice said, “Walk.” As she could not see, she got her legs out of the van and onto the ground with some difficulty. The cement beneath her feet felt hollow, and she felt more confident in surmising that this was a parking garage, for whatever that was worth. The hand on her shoulder guided her steadily to an alcove. The ding of an arriving elevator hit her ears.

An office space? A hotel? she guessed. The elevator ascended smoothly up an unknown number of floors. The door dinged again and opened to what, based on the proximity of echoing footsteps, sounded like it could be a hallway or lobby. She felt like this was it for her, her mind raced to think of any leverage she might have.

Ground zero. Twelve steps forward. Turn left. Twenty five steps. Turn right. Seventeen steps. Stop.

Keys jangled, and a door was unlocked. She was roughly pushed into a room, and the door was locked behind her. She scooted back until she felt the cold, hard wall against her back. It offered a shred of security. In the darkness, she allowed herself to quietly cry. Although she felt despair creeping in, she fought it off. Her tears flowed easily. She chose to breathe slowly through the emotional pain as it rose up from her heart. The horror from the murder of Greenbaum now shook her. In her mind's eye, the scene played out over and over again. Why had she been so cruel to that poor guy? She pulled herself together. No time for that now. She had to be strong.

The sound of key teeth churned in the lock. The door swung open and fresh air swept through the room. Through the black bag over her head, Sharon could sense light pouring in through the doorway.

“What the hell is this?” a woman's voice demanded.

The overhead light clicked on. The woman's voice turned from irritation to anger and shock. It didn't seem like she was talking to Sharon. “What did you do? What did you DO?!”

The man who'd ordered her to walk replied, “We did what the boss said. She's here.”

The woman snarled at him, “You and I are going to have a long chat later. Get out of here!” she yelled. “I've got to fix this.”

With a sudden jerking motion, the bag was off Sharon's head. The woman seemed somehow familiar, but Sharon couldn't quite place it. Maybe she'd seen her on television. The brunette's hair reached no further than her chin. Her nose reminded Sharon of an eagle's beak. She was striking, but not attractive.

The woman spoke first, dropping to one knee to look Sharon in the eyes. “This was supposed to be an invitation. You were supposed to be invited. What in the fresh hell? I don't know how, but I'm going to make this right.”

She checked over her shoulder before continuing, “Look, if you promise not to press charges I can pay you a lot of money. A LOT of money.”

Sharon took her time to pick each word with care. “A man... was shot. I'm not sure that paying me off is an option anymore, but I also... do not wish to... be disappeared... I don't know who you are, so I have no leverage.”

“Oh, shit. A man was WHAT?&quot; The woman had assumed the splatters of blood on Sharon were the result of rough handling.

Sharon felt stronger. “A Federal Agent. Your guy's are a little trigger happy.”

The woman was panicking. “That... Oh my gosh. This is going to cost so much more. This has gone further than I'd thought. I'm going to make it right, okay?”

Sharon's exhausted head rolled gently back and forth on the wall. “I still don't know why I'm here.”

The woman assured her, “Sharon Teez, we have a lot to discuss. But now I need to get this all sorted. Here.” She took out a pocket knife and cut the nylon zip ties that held Sharon's wrists together.

Sharon blinked a few times to clear her eyes. “Say, what's your name?”

“It's uh...” The woman paused, considering how this would turn out. “Well, they say honesty is the best policy. Vayes. Rachel Vayes.”

Sharon said, “Well, Vayes Rachel Vayes, have you ever heard of a game called Good Cop / Bad Cop?”

Rachel froze.

Sharon went on. “Are, uh… you the good cop here?”

Rachel furrowed her brow. “Yes. Yes I am. And I might be your best chance at getting out of here in one piece.”

Sharon let a wry smile curl her lips. “I do like being in one piece.” Then her features hardened.“So, what does your employer really want, anyway?” 

Rachel gulped. “Information on Cole. Do you know what was in the letter sent to Cole Nova late last week?”

Sharon held her head in her hands, covering her face. “If I say that I do, does that give me any leverage? By my thinking, if I told you what it contained, I would lose that leverage, right?”

“We need to get going now. Let's get you cleaned up, yes? And, uh, Sharon? You and I might have a lot more in common than you'd think.” Rachel answered.

Sharon took mental notes the whole way. The hallways of the building were wide, with expensive wooden baseboards. The walls were painted a Tuscany tan with a plaster texture. Here and there hung vapid abstract art pieces. The plastic plants reminded her of leased office space.

Rachel guided her to the ladies room. In the mirror, Sharon’s reflection was that of a sad clown. Her smudged mascara made her look like a haunted raccoon, and her maroon lipstick had been smeared across her cheeks by the black bag. Rachel set her purse on the counter and sorted through it until she found a makeup kit, which she handed to Sharon. Rachel also tore several sheets of paper towels out of a dispenser, and placed them by the sink. “I am so, so sorry about all of this.”

Sharon wetted the paper towels and used them to remove as much of her messy makeup as she could. “What are you going to do about the agent?”

Rachel leaned one shoulder against the wall. “I'm not doing anything. That goes in the report for someone else to handle.”

Sharon glanced over at Rachel's mirrored face. “Like they handled me?”

Rachel tapped a foot thoughtfully. “Not a word from you to the public, or there can be no deal. Come out when you look presentable.” She strode out the door, leaving Sharon alone with her mascara.

As soon as Rachel was out the door, Sharon scouted around the bathroom stalls, hoping to find a discarded brochure or business card. She scoured the bathroom from stall to stall. She hit pay dirt two stalls down, with a schedule flier taped to a wall over the toilet paper.

The letterhead bore few identifying marks.

“To all employees,

We are happy to offer a refrigerator in the faculty lounge as a courtesy to keep employee food cold. Please remember to only use your personally assigned spaces for meals. Using the assigned space of another employee is not permitted, even if they are not using that spot.

Please note that the employee lounge is monitored by cameras at all times, and we know who has been stealing lunches. As always, taking the food of another person is theft and will result in an immediate write-up. Be a good neighbor.

-Katelyn, H.R.”

Sharon spotted the watermark in the background. The company logo featured a capitalized A over a Greek omega symbol.

Sharon whispered, “Alpha Omega Corp. Medical supplies?” She flushed the toilet, which she knew would be audible through the walls, then washed her hands in a mechanical, ceremonial way. She exited and found Rachel waiting in the hallway.

Rachel asked, “Ready to go?”

Sharon sighed, “As ready as I'll ever be.”







Chapter 20

The Crew You’ve Been Waiting For

Vance tapped the golf cart horn to let out a high pitched meep-meep as he arrived in front of The ‘Astros’ doorway. He greeted them as they sauntered out. “Ready for the real training to begin?”

Cole was finishing the last of a vending machine cupcake and nodded. Bitboi Leroy finished his protein shake and howled as he crushed the carton with one of his hands.

Ricardo asked, “Say, Mr Black. Why is the lab state of the art, while these bed springs are cheaper than Christmas trees on New Year's Day?”

“You know, budget concerns and all that.” Vance replied.

Ricardo pushed back. “Budget smudget. It's like sleeping on a lumpy hedgehog.”

Vance started up the cart and zipped back out to the atrium, “Don't be such a baby, I thought you ‘Astros’ were made of steel.”

Ricardo spoke louder,“You try sleeping on them. You'll come back with scoliosis.”

Ricardo yelled over his shoulder to Cole where he was sitting in the back seat. “Hey, have you spoken with your lady today?”

With hints of worry, Cole answered, “I tried calling a few times. Straight to voicemail.”

Ricardo shrugged.

The pathway opened to level ground where square buildings of differing sizes sprouted up. One stood out in the middle, larger than a big box store. It was encircled by a razor wire fence, with a guard at a tiny guardhouse. As they approached he waved them through the gate.

Cole pointed at the building for Bitboi to see. “That must be where we're going!” The monkey cheered at whatever was happening right now. One side of the building was composed almost entirely of giant folding doors. At the entrance of a regular sized door stood Chancellor DeMint who appeared comically small next to the building. They must have moved some pretty big pieces of equipment to need doors that big, Cole thought

The Chancellor greeted them warmly, “Gentlemen! Good to see you this morning, as always. How are you feeling today?” Vance noticed the veins bulging on Ricardo's forehead and shot him a serious look as if to say, Not the time, not the place.

Ricardo proceeded with a more level head. “Very good Chancellor DeMint.”

DeMint attended to Bitboi Leroy and ignored the men.“And what about our little monkey friend?” Bitboi threw four thumbs up, and reached towards Chancellor DeMint to be held by him. Cole passed the monkey to the older man, and Bitboi wrapped the Chancellor up in a great big hug.

DeMint enjoyed the hug, and jested, “Now, don't go all Wolverine on me with those claws, boy.”

They entered the vast hall. The first thing Cole noticed was the immense spacecraft. The second thing he noticed was the strange shape of the ship. It looked like a giant sucker  standing upright with fins around the bottom of the stick. No, those weren’t fins, they were thrusters, Cole had never seen such puny thrusters. The blueprints in the classroom did not do justice to how weird it looked in real life. He studied the vessel, a tall and slender cylinder with modules in girders along the sides, topped by a strange blimp of a metallic sphere. It looked as though a slight breeze could topple the whole thing.

Cole spotted three people by it, and realized quickly that those specks were Chancellor DeMint, Ricardo and Vance. They had gone on ahead while he had stood mesmerized by the ship. This view put the whole project into a better perspective, and he was once more astonished by its scale.

DeMint led the group past attendants and carts with machines on them. Bitboi snagged a clipboard off one of them and threw it at the ground. An attendant exclaimed, 'Hey!'”

“Decorum, Leroy.” Chancellor DeMint snapped at the monkey around his neck. The macaque looked sideways, innocently.

Cole pointed to the puny rockets as he approached, he cheerfully inquired, “Isn't this thing a little top-heavy? I'm no engineer, but what is with the tiny rockets and huge dome? How is this going to get off the ground?”

Chancellor DeMint glanced at Vance Black, who nodded at him meaningfully. DeMint nodded back, and spoke to Cole.

“Do you remember the plasma drives you went over yesterday? Don't worry about takeoff. Those little things pack a punch. And that sphere is very special. It will harvest what you need. You just focus on the navigation. Leave the vehicle to us. Now, is Cole Nova ready to get back to work?”

Cole replied, “I'm here, aren't I?”

Chancellor DeMint smacked him on the shoulder. “Gumption! That's what I want to hear. And speaking of gumption, here comes the rest of the crew.”

Two people in flight suits entered the giant hangar from the far end of the bay, and made their way to the group. One was a woman in her mid-thirties with a dark ponytail and Mediterranean features. The other was a fit man with a dark complexion in his early thirties. He had a serious demeanor and a flat top haircut. DeMint announced, “These are Commander Taylor Glenn and Chief Science Officer Samantha Drummond. They'll be joining you on the flight.”

Cole and Ricardo raced to shake their hands. The woman introduced herself to Ricardo first. “Samantha Drummond.”

“Ricardo Corazon, Pilot. Good to have you along, Chief Science Officer.” He bowed a little, respectfully.

The man gripped Cole's hand severely. “Taylor Glenn. I've heard so much about you, Cole Nova.”

Taylor kept his steely blue eyes fixed on Cole, challenging him. Cole felt the test. Cole wanted to say, Well I've never heard of you, Taylor. Instead he said, “Good to meet you, Commander. Looking forward to flying together.”

Commander Glenn smirked. “There won't be any... safety issues... on this flight, will there?”

He directed his question at Chancellor DeMint, while still gripping Cole's hand. Cole gripped tightly back. DeMint, oblivious to the suggested meaning, recounted to him, “Our boys have triple checked every component all the way down to each spare gasket and screw. This big bird is as tight as a tub. Alright, let's get to orientation.”

Cole could feel Taylor trying to tighten his grip further, but Cole gripped even harder. A look passed between the men, and Taylor let go with a scoff. “Yes sir.”

Cole remembered the arm-wrestling contests he'd enjoyed with Bitboi Leroy, and considered how they had just paid off. Bitboi spidered up his back, and the entourage strolled around the ship, with Vance Black leading the tour.

“Those thrusters on the beams are secondary engines, useful in different types of environments. And this,” he gestured, “is your gangway, directly underneath the fuselage. You will find additional exits on the port and starboard sides halfway up the ship. They have smaller airlocks than the tail, but they'll do in a pinch.”

Ricardo strolled along with nonchalance in front of Samantha, while Cole and Taylor paced each other behind them. 

Vance touched the top of one of the small thrusters. “As the Chancellor mentioned earlier, these rockets are small, but their purpose is mostly steering or navigation. Most of the acceleration will be handled by that.” he pointed to the blimp sized sphere on top.

They all looked up at the huge sphere. Taylor jested, “What? That? You have GOT to be kidding me.”

Vance shrugged, but appeared to be amused. “It's not like the classics that ran hot. We're using some bleeding-edge, never-before-seen tech... just to make things interesting for you.”

Taylor interjected. “I need to know every nut and bolt. I am the Commander of this mission, remember?”

Vance shook his head slowly. “Actually, this is proprietary technology. Don't get me wrong, Commander. I know that on other missions you needed to know everything. But this vessel is filled to the brim with need-to-know items, and you don't need to know those things. More importantly, I am not legally permitted to tell you about them. I'll show you around the command module, but nothing gets inside nor out of that piggy bank up there. Does everyone here understand what I just said?”

Ricardo, Cole and Samantha  all responded in the affirmative with Bitboi throwing up three thumbs up behind Cole’s back not wanting to be left out. Taylor was clearly unhappy with this arrangement, but kept silent.

Vance continued, “Those long tubes on the side beams have the solar sails in them. They'll keep you going faster and faster without wasting fuel. Plus they recharge some of the onboard batteries. There are no weapons, of course. We're not expecting any encounters with E.T. out there.”

This brought a chuckle from Ricardo and Samantha. Chancellor DeMint smacked his lips. “Not even a Buck Rogers rocket pistol? No Han Solo blasters? Even the Soviets had on-board shotguns.”

The questions forced Vance to laugh.

“No, Mr. Chancellor. And those shotguns were for the unlikely scenario in which a Cosmonaut might encounter a bear or unruly peasant after landing. However, it does have extremely efficient systems matched to the mission at hand. We're using a few, uh, a few things that behave kind of like solar panels, to gather a broad spectrum of light energy. And some other tricks I can't even tell you about. So, it's still very sci-fi.”

Cole read the name emblazoned on the side. “GOLDEN DAWN” As he whispered the name, he liked the sound of it. The team gathered where the leg fins converged, at the dead center of the fuselage. With the push of a button by Vance, the hatch opened and a ladder descended.

Cole observed, “Very, very sci-fi. The design is straight out of 1950’s science fiction, when every car had fins.”

Ricardo chimed in. “And everyone was excited about the promise of nuclear power, while living in terror of nuclear war.”

Vance noted, “Funny that you should mention that, because this actually is a nuclear-powered vehicle. Nothing else has the energy efficiency needed. Nuclear diamond batteries keep the auxiliary and display systems running. We've had those since the 1960's.”

Taylor vied for attention with an attempt at humor. “Well I, for one, just can't wait to fly in a nuke. We're going full Doctor Strangelove!”

Crickets.

Vance cocked his head. “Commander, I hope this doesn't disappoint you, but there's no uranium in this one. Just boring old thorium. It's easier to mine and safer, a concession we made with the international community.”

Samantha raised her hand. “And how many countries know about this?”

Vance reflected on her question. “Well, now I've gone and stuck my foot in my mouth. I really can't comment on that at the moment. Do you have any other questions I could answer?” He did his best to look helpful.

Chancellor DeMint had a question. “If this thing goes haywire, how bad will the cleanup be?”

“That's a very good question, Chancellor. That's why we have rigorously tested every component, just to be safe. We’ve had this baby in full submersion in the ocean to test for corrosion and galvanization; electrical, nuclear and thermal insulation, and of course air-tightness. For the information of all involved, this ship could launch from the bottom of the Marianas Trench and fly all the way past the ionosphere. I know it for myself, as I personally tested it with robots and an artificial intelligence pilot.”

Taylor wanted answers. “You personally tested it. On robots?”

Vance assured him, “Well, I'm not suicidal. Any other questions? No? Good. Shall we go in?”

Up the ladder they went one by one, with Vance in the lead. Bitboi Leroy opted to climb the ladder for himself, instead of riding Cole's shoulders. Chancellor DeMint remained at the base.

Ricardo noted, “This looks similar to the interior of the old International Space Station. Man, this is a long ladder. You doing alright, Cole? Need to take a breather, old man? Heh heh.” 

He scaled the ladder, passing consoles, equipment and lockers. Vance raised his voice over the chatter. “Right now we're in the aft airlock. Notice the deep space suits are in the lockers by the door. You might need to deploy from here so get acquainted with the features. The suits are ultra lightweight and flexible, easy to put on and nearly indestructible. Here are your thruster packs, in case you have to do any spacewalks for repairs. Notice the bunks over the eating area.”

Cole wondered if he was going to keep talking while the crew clung on to the ladder. The approach was testing his patience.

Commander Glenn asked, “Vance. The crew station. That's towards the nose?”

Vance Black was far above on the ladder, carefully attending to his own feet. “Yes, it is.”

“I'd like to review the controls.” Glenn insisted.

Vance used one hand to open the bulkhead above him and shoved it upward. “All in good time, buddy. All in good time. Now, does everybody see the double bulkhead seal feature here?”

It was, in fact, impossible for them all to see past each other, and Samantha said as much. “I can't see past Ricardo, sir.”

Ricardo retorted, “Are you fat shaming me Officer Drummond? Anyway, Vance, where did you say the pantry was?”

Vance Black called down to the crew. “I know, I know. It's a wacky design. That's why I wanted each of you to experience it for yourselves. Now, I want you all to get used to each other. You're all going to have to get along for at least a few weeks.”

Cole heard him say this, even though the sound was muffled by several bodies between him and Vance far above. “Don't you mean years? The trip to Saturn takes at least a year on a one-way ticket.”

As Vance unlocked the next bulkhead he paused. “Not anymore. Like I said, The Golden Dawn is bleeding-edge tech, you’ll be up and back in no time.”

“Are our bodies gonna hold together at those speeds?” Taylor asked with a tone of concern in his voice. The look in the eyes of the others showed they had the same concern.

“Like I told you earlier, most of the robots and AI turned out just fine after testing.” Vance assured them. This did not assure them. After a few more minutes of chitchat about the features of each compartment, the crew made their way to the command module. Ricardo was overjoyed. “At long last, a chair!”

Vance poured himself into one of the reclined seats. “Not as comfy as my sofa, but these might be better once you're up there, out of the gravity well of Earth.”

Ricardo nestled into the pilot's chair. “Nah, feels right at home.”

Vance stirred. “That's one more surprise for you, Captain Corazon. You are being assigned as copilot to Mr. Nova.”

Ricardo listened, then steamed. “Co-what?”



















Chapter 21

Do We Understand Each Other?


Sharon and Rachel traveled up another floor, the elevator doors opened into a long, dark hallway that extended in either direction. A cheerful fat Buddha statue sat underlit at each end. Small, warm lights shone sharply downward from the ceiling, casting down brilliant beams of light to the floors in focused beams. Yet the walls managed to escape any of the light. Directly ahead a large heavy set of double wooden doors loomed. They were decorated with sharp swathes of brass, with long polished bar handles. Rachel gripped one with her hand. Breathing deeply, she pushed forward.

Kicked back in a swivel chair, with his feet atop his wide mahogany desk, a man in a gray suit lounged. Beyond him the floor-to-ceiling windows revealed giant passing clouds. It was as if the clouds held still and the building was gliding through them. On either wall a dozen televisions showed live news feeds and sports.

The man quickly got out of his seat and stood up. “Rachel! I did not expect you to bring me this package today. And Sharon Teez, Cole Nova's long-term squeeze.”

This struck at her nerves, and a chill went down her spine, how did he know who she was? Sharon held her composure.

He moved towards Sharon with casual, wide strides. “I’m Marus, I've heard so much about you.”

Now that Sharon knew who this was and that this involved Cole, she stalled to buy herself time.“How much are you going to pay me to stay quiet about your goon?”

Marcus shifted towards Rachel. “Ms. Vayes, now what is she talking about?”

Rachel intoned with severity, “There was a mishap with the agent escorting her.”

“Oh? What kind of mishap?” Marcus asked.

Rachel's shoulders hunched forward. “The kind that requires a clean up crew, sir.”

With a grand wave of his hand, Marcus dismissed her.“Oh, that. Already handled. Don't you worry your little head about that.” He sat on his desk with his shoulders back wide. “Now, Sharon. Look, business is just business. I won't let you blackmail me, because that is simply not going to work. Just tell me what I want to know about Captain Nova.”

“You want some dirt on Cole? He farts in his sleep, like all men. And he snores. He's late on paying the phone bill. He drinks too much. Oh, and he has an unhealthy relationship with a four-armed monkey that drinks detergent and motor oil.” Sharon offered.

He shuffled around on the desk, moving his hands as if he were juggling his ideas. He waxed lyrical. “Let's imagine the news story. Your little agent got mugged, didn't he? Greenbaum, was it? He must have told the wrong person about his upcoming payday. He was there to collect your bribe money, was he not? To keep your side hustle under wraps? And, uh, you were kidnapped for the cash, and maybe you were dumped in a field. Sometimes people get kidnapped and are never seen again, you know?”

Sharon gulped hard.

“Lucky you, our favorite public servant, Representative Vayes just so happened to be driving by, and saved a woman in need. Now, obviously you don't want your illegal activities exposed. This will play out very well for us, and very poorly for you.” Marcus said.

“I don't know what you're talking about.” Sharon defended.

“Sure you do,” Marcus insisted.“Does our unreliable friend Cole know about your dirty deals?”

In her mind, Sharon thought, Of course he does. That's how we met… Wait, what the hell?”

“With a past like his, do you really want to add your dirty laundry to his pile?” Marcus asked.

Sharon pictured Marcus swimming in a tank as a shark. She quipped, “Cole's a big boy. He can take care of himself. Besides, it'll be hard to get him a message for the next two years.”

Marcus' brown eyes reflected the tiny lights in the room like stars in space. “So, Saturn’s their destination” he gleaned. “Thank you very much for that answer.”

Sharon felt the blood drain from her face and hands. Shit.

With perfect politeness he adjusted his mood to one of feigned concern. “Don't you know I have eyes and ears everywhere? Don't you know the Federation is crawling with MY employees? There's only one reason to take on a mission as expensive as Saturn right now.”

Sharon could tell he was bluffing. Something didn't add up.

Marcus went to his desk. The glass surface inlaid in it served as a touch screen and keyboard. With a few finger taps, the bays of screens on the walls flooded with Cole's face and information. Everything from medical records to his Federation transcripts, grade school photos, it was all laid bare.

On one of the screens, known relatives were displayed. He scrolled down to Emily Nova. He tapped again. On another screen, her information appeared, not as much information on her as Cole. Her admittance to the Central California Alpha Omega Medical Facility popped into clear view.

“Of course, one of our customers.” Marcus glared.

Sharon felt her heart pounding. She wasn't prepared for the turns this conversation was taking. Marcus grabbed his phone and tapped the screen. “Hi, Jessica? Put me through to the head of security. I'll hold.”

As the seconds passed, Sharon agonized.

“Yeah, hi Craig. Just checking in. How are things? Uh huh, uh huh. Well if anything out of the ordinary pops up, make sure to let Director Bentley know. Keep up the great work! Thank you for being part of the team. Yeah, bye.”

He wouldn't dare, she thought. Then immediately following, Of course he would.

“You're not even willing to give her a chance to beat gravity sickness, are you?” Sharon implored.

“What chance?” he quizzed.

Sharon felt like her body would explode. Without thinking, Sharon blurted, “You of all people know what those minerals can do!”

The glint in Marcus' eye told Sharon that she had just played her last card. Her knees almost buckled in regret. What had she done? What would he do? The questions made her head spin.

Now that Marcus had extracted the value from Sharon, she was no longer a threat. He was getting bored with her. Time to wrap things up.

“Let's make some phone calls. We'll get you a ride home, and you can forget about this whole bad dream.” he said.

Sharon glanced at Rachel.“I was being taken into protective custody by that agent. People will be looking for me.”

Marcus pursed his lips.“A little paperwork and that goes away too. You get your life back, and the Federation leaves you alone. So what do you say?”

Sharon didn't know what to do or say, but her instincts told her that she had to leave. She'd have to pull herself together to fix this.“Yeah.”

Marcus hissed through his teeth, “Senator, get her out of here.”

Rachel's pale expression told Sharon that they both needed to get moving. Rachel took Sharon by the elbow and escorted her out the door. In the elevator, Sharon couldn't help but vent her frustration.

“Rachel, what was that?” Sharon demanded.

Rachel didn't look at her, but kept a stolid face towards the elevator buttons, counting down. “Careful.” she admonished. Rachel looked towards the security camera in the elevator, and Sharon took the hint.

The elevator opened to the parking garage. Sharon turned to really observe Rachel, and asked, “What is Marcus going to do now that he knows about the cure?”

A car was approaching, its headlights bouncing off the walls. A taxi came into full view and pulled up to Rachel and Sharon.

Rachel implored Sharon, “Please. Nothing happened. For both of us, nothing happened, alright?”

Sharon felt disgusted with herself. “Nothing happened. Got it.”






































































Chapter 22

Demons Don’t Sleep

After hours of tossing and turning, Cole finally gave up on sleep. Bitboi was snoring loudly in a high pitch, and Ricardo was apparently having a very good dream. Without disturbing either, Cole snuck out the door. An empty golf cart was parked outside, the keys still in the ignition. The halls were dimly lit. With a click, the electric cart sprung to life. Cole got moving, going along the institutional brick walls and glass doors. He needed to drive. He needed to think. The night air felt heavy with moisture, almost liquid in his lungs.

Remembering the pathway, Cole steered smoothly around corners and alleys. The atrium garden below danced with the lights of fireflies and robots as he passed. Eventually he came to the chain-link fence of the launch area, and the guard snapped to attention. “Captain Nova. You're up late. Launch is tomorrow. Shouldn't you be resting?”

Cole mused, “Never could sleep before a launch. I want to go look at the ship for a while. Think you could let me in?”

The guard nodded, and opened the gate. Across the pavement, the hangar came closer into sight until its huge square frame overtook Cole's view. He parked the cart outside the door, and another guard checked him into the building. Inside the giant hangar the Golden Dawn bristled to life with instruments and sensors. It took up all the overhead space anywhere you stood. Attendants, engineers and technicians fretted over workstations, moving carts of canisters around and plugging in tubes and wires. Kyle Gomez was among them, his flannel shirt and glasses gave him away. 

Cole walked to the huge ship, nodding to people as he went, but avoided conversation. He climbed up the ladder, took his chair, and sighed. Inside the cabin, it was so quiet. His breath echoed off the panels. He could feel the cushions adjust with every exhale. It fogged up the tiny circular side windows without the auxiliary air on. Nobody was insight. You've got to get ready. You have to do this. You have to show up tomorrow. Do it for Emily. He tried to motivate and reassure himself.

He looked across the controls. He went over the sequence for ignition. The dome overhead was covered in screens and buttons, dials and switches. He closed his eyes and imagined being in his full space suit, the weight of it on his chest and shoulders. It would be loose in the elbows and calves, while tight on his thighs. He went over the ignition sequence again. Did he remember them right? He'd gone over them a hundred times before. He heard the beepings and tones of various systems springing to life. He saw the rise of the LEDs on the panels like a Christmas tree. He felt the thrusters rumble deep in his bones, up past his kidneys and ribs. His mental simulation was choked short by a silent alarm emanating from his solar plexus. His belly stung, and his chest felt as if it would collapse from an invisible weight. Every muscle tensed, bracing for impact. He heard the screams again, dragging him into the same nightmare.

Even after five years, the memories were still vivid, the outlines sharp. Allin's voice echoed back to him, “It's not ready! Captain! Stop! Abort!”

 He could see the fire erupting from the control panels. Other voices pierced through his mind-

“She's ripping apart at the seams!”  Corporal Davis’ voice echoed.

“Eject! Get to the pods!” Ensign Feder yelled.

The voices felt real and present. The voices of ghosts, friends and crewmates.

Cole had experienced pressure and adrenaline so often that it had become his baseline. There was always another chance to change course to slide out of the way of danger, to improvise. Failure was never an option. But he had failed. The moment Cole realized the crash was imminent was the first time in his life he’d experienced true terror. In this cockpit tonight it was returning in full force and it gripped his mind and body like a claw made of ice.

The weight of it crashed down on him. He gasped for air, but it felt oily in his lungs. He felt as though he were suffocating, fighting for breath. Pure panic pulsed from his brain stem, drowning out all senses except for a warbling ring in his ears. He was completely paralyzed and was powerless to break free.

A static, metallic voice finally caught his attention.“Cole. Captain Nova.”

The shock of sudden awareness sent shivers down his spine. His eyes scanned in every direction, trying to make sense of what he was seeing. There were computer panels. Was he on a spaceship? How long had he been here?

“Who Is this?” Cole choked.

The soft voice replied, almost out of nowhere. “This is Kyle Gomez in the command center. Don't worry, there's nobody else on this channel. Are you okay?”

Cole breathed deep and hard. He could feel the pounding of his heartbeat in his ears lessen. The adrenaline dump brought a wave of heavy fatigue, Kyle spoke again. “Where did you go, buddy? We lost you there for a moment.”

Still shaking, Cole confessed, “It's too much. Um, I don't know how to navigate these flashbacks. But I have to do this for Emily. I have to do it but I can't. I can't do it!”

Kyle's voice came through, almost a whisper. “I get it. I get it, man.” The silence hung thick. “I can only imagine the weight on your shoulders. But I know what it's like to feel helpless. I know what it's like to be gripped by fear. You lost your breath there, didn't you? Feels like you're drowning sometimes, huh?”

Desperate, Cole exhaled, “Yeah.”

“How much longer are you going to let that weight hold you down? Wouldn't it be great if the two of you could part ways on good terms?” Kyle asked.

“I don't know any other way to be.” Cole confessed.

Kyle asked, “What if there were ways you hadn't considered? I mean, have you ever broken up with somebody?”

Cole said, “Of course, but it's not that easy.”

“No. It's not that easy. But what if it were simple?” Kyle continued.

“What do you mean? I'd do ANYTHING for Emily.” Cole said.

“Well, would you do anything for yourself Cole?” Kyle asked.

Cole insisted, “This isn't about me.”

Kyle observed, “Well, I'm not talking to Emily now, am I? What you do for Emily might add another ten, twenty, maybe fifty years to her life. I commend you for striving to help her. But we all die in the end. Who decided that we have to suffer til then?”

Cole raged, “You tell that to the families of my crew!”

Kyle retorted, “Doesn't guilt taste good going down? You know a lot of people don't understand this, Cole. But guilt is a selfish indulgence.”

Cole asked, a little more calm now, “What do you mean?”

“Imagine taking all the time and energy you put into guilt, and investing it into something that could make the world a better place? Answer me honestly. Who benefited from your guilt? Nobody.” Kyle stated.

Cole felt the tears welling up. They dropped freely down his temples. “I made everything worse.”

“You keep saying it's about Emily, but isn't it about you? You're not Emily, you're not the crew. I'm talking to Cole. I'm here for Cole. You get me?” Kyle assured.

“I get it.” Cole submitted.

“You don't have to make this choice right now, Cole. Ricardo would take over your job in a heartbeat. But imagine a life without that weight on you. Someday you will have to choose whether to hold on to it or let it go. It's going to leave sometime whether you like it or not. The day you die, maybe sooner. This life tells us we're important and special and unique.” Kyle explained.

Cole paused. “What do I do in the meantime?”

Kyle’s voice crackled through the speaker. “Are you willing to take a deep breath or two?”

“I'm already missing out on my beauty sleep as it is, so what the heck? Why not?” Cole relented.

“Alright, breathe in for five seconds, breathe out for five seconds. Can you do that for me?”Kyle asked.

Cole breathed in. “Yes.” He exhaled slowly, and felt himself becoming calmer and calmer.

Kyle insisted, “Again.”

With slow, purposeful breaths, Cole felt himself returning to awareness of this moment. The cockpit was more real, more firm around him. He could really feel the texture of the cushions underneath him.

“Now focus on your senses, what do you feel?” Kyle asked.

“Um, I feel the  seat cushion.” Cole replied.

“Describe it in detail,” Kyle said.

“ It’s cool and firm, with fake leather grain you can barely feel with your fingertips,” Cole said.

“Good, good, now what do you taste Cole?” Kyle asked.

“I taste stale coffee in the back of my throat and cheap dental work” Cole continued.

“Yes, very good, and what do you smell?” Kyle asked.

“I smell the ozone from the power tools down on the ground and fresh rubber and packing plastic,” Cole said.

“And what do you hear?” Kyle asked.

“ I hear the warning beeps of forklifts off in the distance and the soft hum of the static between your words,” Cole answered.

“And what do you see?” Kyle concluded.

“I see the screens and control panels.” Cole said.

“Details,” Kyle insisted.

“Uh, The glass is reflective and the letters are green like ‘Slimer’ from “The Ghostbusters”. The buttons and dials have a slight bumpy texture to them and they resemble small armies in formation on the dull dark blue, like deep ocean  blue, surface of the desk.” Cole recited.

“Now, where did all of the fear and pain and stress go?” Kyle asked.

“It’s almost gone,” Cole realized with a sense of relief.

“There's no future if there's no present, so where are you now?” Kyle stated.

Cole felt more and more stable. “In a cockpit, breathing.”

“If you're breathing, you're alive, aren't you?” Kyle asked.

Cole sighed in relief. It felt... good. “Yeah, yeah I am.”

“Not a bad place to start, is it? But remember, nobody leaves this life alive. Isn't it wonderful?” Kyle said.















































Chapter 23

Blastoff and a Sixth Crew Member


In his hands, Ricardo hefted his favorite bowling ball, with perfectly machined grips that fit him as well as his own skin. A blue metallic sheen mirrored his face like a crystal ball. Just beyond the shimmer of the bowling ball stood Trina from San Bernardina and Felicity from Carson City, cheering him on. Their outfits struggled to keep in their voluptuous curves. In the distance, ten pins stood like sentinels, waiting for his devastating strike. He felt the leather on the bottoms of his shoes slide and grip, slide and grip. As his shoulders lunged forward and the bowling ball swung back, he knew he was in perfect alignment. As his left foot slid behind his right, his arm descended like a scythe, releasing the ball at the perfect moment. He held his breath.

His mind recoiled at the piercing wail of an unknown assailant. In a full-body spasm, he awoke to the blaring alarm clock. It read, 4:00 AM. He smashed the button to silence the alarm, cracking its plastic case. With the click of a switch, the overhead fluorescent bulb blinded Cole, who rubbed his eyes before setting his feet on the hard carpet. Frustrated, and grieving the loss of a satisfying strike, Ricardo took in his surroundings. He mumbled, “Every. Time.”

Cole wondered aloud, “What?”

“Never mind.” Ricardo lumbered to the bathroom. The sound of the sink pouring combined with the drone of an electric shaver, drowning out anything else Cole might want to say to him.

Cole opened Bitboi's cage and gently shook the blanket shrouding the macaque. With a quiet, high-pitched grunt, two arms emerged from the folds in it, each delivering a universal sign of displeasure through a single raised digit on each hand. A shining blade protruded from each one, as more of a threat than a gesture. The other two arms held tightly to his green stuffed alligator.

“I know it's early, buddy.” Cole scooped up Bitboi in spite of sluggish protests and readied both the monkey and himself for the day. He opened the dormitory door. 

In the hallway, Vance Black sat behind the wheel of a humming golf cart. He was adorned in a button-down long-sleeved blue shirt, white cargo shorts, and flip flops. “You space cowboys looking for a rodeo?”

The blue light of the dawn was filtering in through the windows of the chow hall. The coffee station already buzzed with excited workers. Despite the bags under their eyes, they felt a shared enthusiasm. This was a special day.

At the same time, clear across the facility, Ricardo, Cole, Samantha and Taylor stood side by side. The group  was positioned at one edge of the vast expanse of the launchpad. Each was outfitted with thick, gleaming white space suits and chunky helmets. Bitboi held the hands of three of them, but refused to hold hands with Taylor.

The Golden Dawn stood tall on the broad launchpad. The sunrise danced across the shiny metal sphere, giving life to its name. Taylor scornfully pointed his finger like a barb. In a robotic voice he turned to the group and stated, “I can't do that, Dave.”

They looked at him blankly, then walked towards the ship. He followed in tow.

“Come on! 2001: A Space Odyssey?” Taylor interrogated them. “Oh come on! You guys!”

Ricardo slapped him on the shoulder. “We get it, dude.”

Taylor implored, “Why didn't you laugh, then? Anybody?” They all burst into laughter, and Commander Taylor Glenn laughed along with them. They all patted him on the back.

Ricardo nudged him. “Just messing with you, Commander. Let's be good mates if we're going to be up here for long. It's all play or it's all work!”

They raced off to the loading ladder. As he ran, Ricardo howled, “I'm going to win.”

Samantha loped just behind him. “I am NOT getting stuck behind you. You take too long.”

Cole zipped past both of them. “First one there's the winner!”

Ricardo lost all sense of professionalism, fully caught in the sheer joy of competition, and redoubled his efforts. His quick shuffle turned into sweeping strides, and he overtook Cole in the last five yards.

He touched the ladder and bellowed, “I win! I WIN!”

Cole gave Ricardo a soft slug on his shoulder, “Cheater.”

Chancello DeMint watched them through binoculars on the adjacent rooftop of one of the buildings across from the launchpad. He muttered to himself, “Kids. They're a bunch of damn kids.”

The crew ascended and an attendant in a cap came up to make sure the tail port was sealed, then waved off the crew with an eager thumb's up. He bolted away.

Last in line, Taylor yelled up at the others, “Does it have to take so long? Strap in! Come on people.”

Ricardo was finally strapped into the chair labeled “Co-Pilot”, although he fussed a lot over it and pretended not to be able to find the seat belt, looking helpless as a comical bit. Cole rolled his eyes and looked over the controls again, and noticed that Ricardo once again held “101 Ways to Improve Your Bowling Game” and was thumbing through the pages. “Dude, there aren’t even pockets in these flight suits. Where did you get that from?”

“A magician never reveals his secrets,” Ricardo replied, never taking his eyes off the pages.

“Whatever.” Minutes later, with everyone buckled up, Cole called over the loudspeaker. “Uh, this is your captain speaking...”

Ricardo rolled his eyes. Cole radioed the control tower. “Ready to rock and roll. I feel like Atlas under this big ball.”

Vance Black responded. “Write that one down. Yeah, yeah. Okay, Captain Nova?”

“Captain Nova checking in. We are locked in and ready for pre-flight check.”

“Initiating pre-flight check.” Ricardo snapped into his role.

Monitors beeped and whirred. Fuel tanks looked good.

“All systems are green. We are live.” Cole reported.

In the control room, Kyle Gomez addressed the sleepy engineers. “Alright men, we're all these guys have once they launch. Everybody got their coffee? It's going to be a long day. To your stations.”

He touched the intercom. “Cole, do you have anything to say to our engineers?”

Cole expressed, “Thank you all for everything you guys have done to get us to this point. This is for everybody who didn't get to be here with us.”

The engineers cheered, “Hear, hear!” and a Rick Flair style “Wooo!”

One of the senior engineers in the back of the room started the chant, quietly at first, “Jack-pot, Jack-pot” and the others joined in, louder and louder.

Vance stepped up to Gomez and the microphone. “I think the feeling is mutual, Captain Nova. Good work, Gomez. Good work everyone. This is just the beginning.”

Cole felt tightness in his chest growing. Not again. It felt like thunder rushed through his ears.Remembering what Kyle had taught him the night before, Cole closed his eyes and breathed. He  inhaled and counted, One, two, three, four, five. Exhale. One, two, three, four, five.

He felt the grain of the leather on the seat. He listened to the systems hum as the rush left his ears, paying attention to the low crackle of static from the intercom. He could taste the steroid-strength coffee from this morning in the back of his throat. He could smell the fresh foam padding around his neck. He slowly opened his eyes, and saw his own eyes reflected back at him in his visor. He focused on each black line going from his pupils into his mossy brown irises.

He quipped, ”I must be alive. What a great place to start.”

Ricardo looked over, and asked aloud, “Who are you talking to?”

Vance paused for effect. “Punch it.”

Cole pressed the sequence of buttons, just as he'd been taught. The sphere above rumbled to life. Cole and Ricardo glanced at each other, in fear, yet with a flicker of courage. One by one, each person felt a strangely magnetic force waving through their entire beings.

Samantha asked, “Is anybody else feeling this?”

Taylor held tightly to his chair. “This is nothing like Cape Canaveral.” He ordered, “Captain Nova! When the meter hits one hundred percent, take off, punch it!”

Cole said, “Yes, sir.”

His words carried a dash of resentment towards Taylor, which he felt growing inside. He pressed a large green button.The sphere pulsated more and more, and the vessel rose in the air. At first, it was like an  old-fashioned hot air balloon, pushed by the breeze.

Chancellor DeMint marveled at this technological miracle. The closer to the top of the sphere, the more totally transparent, and then invisible it became. The more transparent it became, the faster the ship ascended into the air. Faster and faster, doubling its velocity in meters every second.

Taylor howled, “Brace for it!”

But to their utter surprise, the crew felt almost no turbulence whatsoever. The first several seconds of darkness were confusing. A few minutes in, the computer chimed on. “Welcome. I'm GRACIE, your artificial intelligence assistant.”

Ricardo was baffled. “They didn't train us on this.”

Taylor muttered, “No, they did not. Probably one of Vance's toys.”

GRACIE went on, “I am an emergency system designed in case of such an event as sensory blackout. This maiden flight tests the possibilities of what Earth can bring to the stars. Using uniquely human-designed electrogravity impellers, the Golden Dawn is equipped to, in theory, disintegrate any impending asteroid or smaller space debris. Your safety is assured. Thank you for your participation.”

Ricardo growled, “You have got to be kidding me.”

Cole knew they had passed the point of no return, but this new development cemented it in his mind. Within minutes, the streaks of light outside stabilized more and more into oblongs, then dots. Samantha was the first to spot it.“Would you look at that?” she asked nobody in particular.

“What? What are you seeing?” Taylor asked.

“The stars! They look so strange.” she replied.

Cole asked, “Are we recording?”

Ricardo huffed, “Yeah. Did you know this would happen?”

Cole shook his head no. “This is crazy. That means that the, uh, the thing that Vance showed us? You remember?”

Ricardo said, “Yeah, I remember that. The accelerator.”

Cole winced, “I think it worked better than they thought it would.”

Ricardo huffed, “You think so? I hope so. Can't steer in pitch black. Look at the console. I literally can't.”

A cold terror overcame Cole when he looked at his own control panel. All manual system controllers had been deactivated. Cole asked Ricardo, “Are we still moving?!”

GRACIE observed their responses, as she had been doing the whole time. She concluded that the crew were feeling fear due to a loss of control. She observed that humans experience fear based on real or imagined losses. Nobody ever asked her what she thought about it.

Ricardo decided to get out of his foul mood, so he commented to Officer Drummond, “Samantha, you ever gone weightless before? I will never get over it. The feeling of weightlessness. It's like nothing else.”

She returned, “Yes, but I don't know what phenomenon would cause this feeling of weightlessness in us. If we are heading towards Saturn with ever-increasing velocity, I'd anticipate the inertial pressure to be fairly constant. Something seems strange.”

Bitboi Leroy wobbled through the open cabin air, circling his arms as if he were trying to roll up four imaginary car door windows.

Taylor asked, “How long will this last?”

Saamntha inquired, “Computer?”

“GRACIE here.”

Samantha quizzed the machine. “How soon will we arrive at Saturn?”

GRACIE reported, “Eighty minutes remain until arrival at Saturn.”

Everyone shouted, not quite in unison, “Eighty minutes?!”









Chapter 24

The Pier



Sharon arrived at the steps of her apartment complex. She felt the weight of the day crushing down on her. When she arrived at her front porch, her dismantled phone lay on the welcome mat.

Thanks guys. Real sweet, she thought.

She entered her home with care, inspecting every room. There were no signs of breaking and entering that she could see. She located her car keys and went downstairs. She looked over her sedan for potential bombs, or any zip ties or anything else that she could find suspicious. She opened the car door, and a note lay on the driver's seat.

It read, “Meet me at 7 at the ship end of Seacliff Pier. - R”

“Just enough time.” she noted to herself.

She thought to pop the hood and make sure the engine was in order. “Alternator, distributor? I don't think this model has a distributor.”

She jostled the thing free, as it was only attached with duct tape and wires next to the alternator. It looked homemade with galvanized pole caps on each end. There was a Payday candy bar taped to one side of it. When she pulled it off, a thin rolled-up paper dropped from it to the ground. She picked it up and unrolled it.

“Here's your big Payday. Remember, Ms. Teez. We can always get to you. We can always get to Emily.”

“They knew I'd find it.” She unwrapped the candy bar and took a bite. “Big Payday. Heh.”

She disposed of the fake bomb in a dumpster. She drove to the nearest mobile phone shop, where she transferred her contacts from the old one to a new phone. She had the old phone completely wiped of all data, and left it in the recycling bin. With her new phone, she promptly installed a suite of protective apps, and reached out to the first person she could think of.

She installed an encrypted messaging program before texting his phone, “Cole, Sharon here. If you're still in training I need to see you. And are you alright? I miss you.”

With her new phone, and the letter on the dashboard, Sharon cruised along Highway 101. She noticed the rolling vineyard hills in a way she hadn’t before. Brushing up against death has a way of changing your perspective, she thought. The road to the pier was winding, like a spaghetti bowl of roads that circled in all directions. The area was covered in adorable seaside homes. The way to the pier required paid parking, which still annoyed her even with her new perspective.

A planked foot path led down to the pier, which jutted west into the water to meet a sunken cement ship. “A monument to failure.” she commented as she padded her way down the steps.

Rachel was waiting at the end, just as she said she would be. “I called, but then I realized your phone was broken. You got a new phone?”

Sharon was almost crying, finally admitting how scared she'd felt. “There was a bomb in my car. A cheap one. Like they wanted me to find it. So I'd know they can get to me anywhere.”

“Mr. Marcus watches you. He watches me, he's... He's sick. Do you have any idea what you did? Marcus is much more dangerous now that he got that information from you. You just kicked a hornet's nest a mile wide.”

Sharon's eyes filled with dread. “I thought it was over. Do you think he followed us here?”

Rachel doubtfully said, “I don't think so. There's no cell service in this one spot. Not for any of the major service providers.”

Sharon grew curious. “Why are you helping me, Rachel?”

Rachel sighed. “Marcus sells placebos and hope, and often very lethal cocktails of things you shouldn't mix. He has the best lawyers, and I don't know how many police he owns. I'm not happy to say it but he owns at least one senator. He wins, Sharon. He always wins.”

Sharon was taken aback. “Are you suggesting I give up?”

Rachel squinted into the sunlight. She felt the wind whipping around her, and the splash of the salty sea. “No. I'm suggesting you learn how to win, ... Or,” she hinted, “get smart and disappear.”

Sharon rebuked her. “I'm not leaving. I don't give in to bullies.”

Rachel parried. “How many revolutionaries were killed by kings for those exact words? Do you want to live to see Cole come back? Get with the program!”

Sharon felt defensive. “I'm not getting with any program. You people are twisted.”

Rachel persuaded her, “Learn your and Cole’s place in the ecosystem before it's too late.”

Unlike Sharon’s will, the palm trees swayed, “And what place is that? At the heels of masters? What kind of monsters is Marcus in bed with?” Sharon asked, barely controlling the rage she felt.

Rachel's face tightened. “A hornets nest, a mile wide. Captains of industry will rain down on you. You did this to yourself, you know? When you were a petty black market dealer, it was easy to ignore you. But then you got involved with a man who threatens the profits of Marcus and his cabal. Are you beginning to understand the danger you've put yourself in?”

Sharon wondered, “Alpha Omega Corp sells medicine to stave off some of the symptoms of gravity sickness. A cure would ruin them, wouldn't it?”

Rachel concurred. “If the demand isn't high enough, Marcus will direct his investments towards whatever sector promises the most money. Right now that's in medication for gravity sickness.”

Sharon added, “Medication that doesn't work. How did this get past regulatory bodies?”

Rachel shook her head sadly. “I wish it were that simple. He has money, and money talks...” She trailed off for a moment. “But, my family is sick too, and a cure would be wonderful. I want Cole to succeed, but sometimes you just can’t win.”

Sharon finally felt a bit of empathy for Rachel, and for once she felt like she was having a real conversation. “So what can I do?”

Rachel steeled herself and sudden passion overtook her.“You can try and warn Cole, but knowing Marcus, it’s already too late.”

 























Chapter 25

Are You Seeing This?



At the starboard control panel, Taylor floated awkwardly as he tapped away at a miniature keyboard. The tiny screen above it read, “Loading file: 6%.” Taylor hollered, “Dammit, this thing just isn't loading. Bitboi have you been screwing with the file system? Even the clocks are malfunctioning. The hands are barely moving, and even the digital ones are taking forever to change.”

Cole shot back, “Bitboi doesn't mess with the control panels. He can’t log in and you know it. Quit blaming the monkey. I don't know what’s wrong with the clock.”

“Somebody messed something up! Who was it!?” Taylor erupted.

Samantha, channeling her inner mother, decreed, “Calm yourselves.”

Taylor and Cole checked themselves immediately. Talking more to himself than anyone else Taylor reminded, “Tone. Tone. I get it. I have to watch my tone. This feels like it’s taking forever. We might as well mark the days on the walls with chalk.”

Cole probed, “Hey, I want to know what’s going on too. Come here, Taylor.”

Clearly offended, Taylor bristled. Then, he took a deep breath to compose himself. “The fact that you’re telling me to come over there shows how little you respect my role. I’m supposed to be giving YOU orders.”

“Come here!” Cole repeated, “I’m trying to help us both out. Let’s think about this together for a sec.”

Taylor looked down and to the side. He grimaced and puffed a small cloud of steam into the frosty air. “What?”

“Bitboi is about the size of a big terrier, yes?” Cole queried.

“Yes?” Taylor answered.

“And he suffers from a chronically tiny brain and an overactive imagination, doesn't he?” Cole asked.

“Yes and yes.” Taylor confirmed.

“And even though he can work any tool in the galaxy, he can't wrap his head around code. He's too stuck in his hypothalamus. Yes? No?” Cole Asked.

Taylor sighed. The logic of Cole’s questions had the effect of relaxing the tension between Taylors knotted-up shoulders. “For once, I agree with you Cole. Now, will you give me a break and at least acknowledge the chain of command? Or, are you gonna keep dragging your feet?”

“What the hell are you talking about?” Cole asked.

“That's, 'What the hell are you talking about, Commander', to you.” Taylor barked..

Ignoring Taylor’s request for decorum, Cole continued his detective work. “So, the black king is on A1, and the white knight is on C2...”

“What the hell are you babbling about now?” Taylor demanded.

“...And a bishop on B3. Checkmate.” Cole stated.

Taylor crouched forward. “Have you lost it? Did the launch mess up your head?”

“I'm saying it's either Ricardo or Samantha.” Cole said.

Taylor leaned close enough to smell Cole's cheap aftershave. “And why shouldn't I suspect you?”

“Well I guess you can. Look, you have no reason to like me, and I don't especially like you. But think about it, I’m the one who discovered Dark Matter in the first place. What do I have to gain from slowing down the clocks and computers? What do I have to lose? I have a sister to save, remember? Let's go over this together” Cole reasoned.

Taylor snorted, “You are the most long-winded, egotistical maniac I have ever met, seriously.”

For some reason Cole felt lighter, and more playful than usual. He decided to shift the conversation from malfunctioning equipment to the conflict between them. “Tell you what, if that’s true and my maniacal ego sends me to hell, I'll save you a seat right next to me. Maybe there’s even a hell within hell, like Russian nesting dolls. But we don’t have to suffer right now in each other's company. This pissing contest isn’t producing any results. I propose we work together like the creative men we are. Let’s see if we can figure out what’s going on, and how to fix it.”

Taylor was hesitant, but found the idea intriguing. “Go on.”

Cole paused, “What is it about me that bothers you?”

Taylor felt the heat of irritation rising. “You know what it is? You want to know what I really think about you? I think you're so busy trying to be the hero 'Cole Nova' that you stopped being the real you. I think you’re afraid to be the real you. I think you’re a coward.”

“You think I'm a chicken?” Cole asked. To his own surprise there was no defensiveness in his voice.

Taylor could see Cole was really in a place to listen. “When I see you fronting, acting all courageous, I know it's fake. I can see how much fear you still have in that heart.”

Cole felt the truth of the words, and emotions welled up in him. He sat with them, felt them, and to his surprise, held his tongue.

Taylor softened his tone and lowered his head to see Cole eye-to-eye. “I'm not trying to kick you while you’re down. But it makes me sick to see you quit on yourself. I can only imagine the pressure of being 'Cole Nova', the most awarded pilot in Federation history. That kind of attention would give anybody a savior complex. How's that working out for you? Five years wallowing in self-pity? While you were hiding in your cabin I was training. I felt like you didn't earn your place here. So, yeah, I resent the fact that the Federation gave you a spot. I’m sick of hearing about “Jackpot”  the Federation's golden boy, the great explorer. Those days are over, but that’s the Cole Nova we need right now. Not a shell-shocked has-been that crawls into a bottle every time he needs to escape the past.”

Inexplicably, Cole was able to accept Taylor’s harsh take, and Taylor wasn’t finished. “You accidentally killed six people. So the hell what? You think you’re the first person to carry a burden like that? Half the population of Earth is being extinguished by disease. But YOU don’t come out of hiding ‘til your sister’s life is on the line. Priorities man! You could save billions, but it took your sister being threatened to get you to try again.”

Cole was vulnerable like an armadillo on the highway. At the same time he was shocked by a wave of relief. Taylor was exposing all of the monsters and pain he couldn’t face before. It felt like taking a breath of fresh air, and feeling warm sunlight on his face after years of being buried alive.

Some time ago, a man had confronted Cole about the crash late one night at a bar. Cole knocked him out before he even finished his first sentence. And here, a kid half his age was calling him out in excruciating detail. How was he able to sit in this moment without a hint of anger? “So what is it that you want from me?”

Taylor begged, “I want the truth. That's it. Truth gives us strength. It cuts through the lies we tell ourselves!”

Cole recognized this pattern. “The scientific method... on a smaller scale.”

“Do your beliefs match up with the evidence? You judged and convicted yourself so harshly. You sentenced yourself to years of torment. Were you really qualified to judge yourself back then, from a place of pain? Are you qualified now? Can you really be honest and fair with yourself now?” Taylor questioned.

The impact of the questions struck Cole's heart like hammer blows. Unexpected tears sprang from his eyes, and his vision went blurry. He had to look away from Taylor. He faced the panels on the wall. The leather on the panels seemed to breathe and move through the liquid of his tears. He blinked the tears from his eyes but the motion continued. Not only did the leather move and sigh but its appearance became odd. It looked unreal, plastic, and make-believe. He noticed that panels had perfectly repeating symmetrical patterns. “Cheap, fake leather. Look how often the pattern repeats.”

As he observed the walls, Taylor muttered “Cheap leather? What the heck. They weren't like that a moment ago. They’ve… changed.”

Geometric shapes were forming behind the leather, and others floated in front of it. The surface appeared to have more dimensions and layers than it had before.

Cole asked in a hush, “Are you seeing this?”

Patterns of mandalas and paisley took form. Cole blinked hard and shook his head slightly “Nope. Still there.”

“It's 3-D!” Taylor exclaimed.

Cole felt dazzled. “It's still there when I close my eyes!”

Taylor blinked and felt overwhelmed. “Me, too.”

A rainbow of vivid neon hues pulsated through the labyrinth of shapes. Taylor commented, “Bright blues and pinks.”

“I see them too.” Cole agreed

. 

























Chapter 26

Further Down The Rabbit Hole



Cole and Taylor floated in a reclined posture. The novelty of the situation encapsulated them. Unsure of what to do in this new reality, they continued with their conversation. Both felt a sense of warmth and security blanketing them.

Cole noted, “That judgment and pain stuff you were talking about. Did you steal that from Buddha?”

“Fifty to eighty percent, maybe. I was recruiting for a Baptist church fresh out of college when I found Buddhism.” Tarlo shared.

Cole giggled intensely. “Found what you were looking for?”

The floating patterns of light shifted into a hexagonal grid, evoking a feeling of pure bliss.

Taylor waived this comment away. “No, not at first. I tried to convert the Buddhists, but they ended up converting me. I was a coward. You Know, it took me almost five years to tell my family that my faith had changed. Beliefs that I had held so dearly were just... no longer relevant to me. I just couldn't reconcile my experiences with my family’s beliefs. My encounters lined up better with aspects of Hinduism and Buddhism. And, I finally had to accept it.”

“That sounds terrifying.” Cole remarked.

“I was terrified. I was. When I compared two or more cultural stories that claimed to be true, I had to get rid of the parts that didn’t agree. Over time, only a few ideas survived. I've had to learn to live without the stories I grew up with. For me, I found less suffering on the other side. What are your stories, Cole?”

Enveloped by the dancing, painfully beautiful tapestry of light that surrounded them both, Cole felt safe to express himself here. “My story has always been one of tough love, just trying to be accepted. Church and conformity were mandatory. Real men don't cry, all that stuff. It's the only thing I've ever known.”

“If you could’ve written something different for yourself, what would it sound like?” Taylor asked.

Cole yawned, and felt his entire body sigh in peaceful relief. “I guess it could be any way I want.”

The shapes on the walls changed as soon as he said it. A mass of dodecahedra moved like a school of fish through triangular rivers on the ever-changing walls. A stream of blue light rippled past them and unleashed a wave of compassion in them. A warm flavor filled his mouth.

Cole smacked his lips and asked, “You taste that?”

“Tastes like vanilla. And...and… blueberries.” Taylor shared.

“I feel like I’m in Willy Wonka.” Cole chimed.

Taylor noted, “This is like doing Tumo breathing with the monks. Amazing that you're sharing this too. What is this?”

“Something to do with Dark Matter?” Cole guessed.

Taylor calculated his own thoughts for a moment before speaking. “What is it that you want?”

“Well, I know what I don't want.” Cole stated.

“What’s that?” Taylor asked.

Cole felt sadness and shame creep back into his chest. “I’m tired of feeling rejection, especially from myself.”

“Okay, good! What would the reverse of that look like?” Taylor guided.

“Like I was enough, like I was worthy. I sometimes still feel the pain of it, you know? Up until now, I couldn't even think about Saturn without hearing the screams. Or seeing the looks on their faces.” Cole responded.

Taylor asked, “What if you could remember it without reliving it?”

Cole's eyes widened. “I hadn't, uh. I... Yes. This is the first time I could even think about it without losing my shit.”

Taylor sat with him there, in the heaviness of the moment. “How do you want to feel right now?”

Cole felt tears welling up. “I guess if I could feel whatever I wanted, I would feel lovable.” Cole radiated with the light-bending phosphorescence of Dark Matter.

Taylor weighed this. “If you're honest with yourself, Cole, really honest, who told you, you’re unlovable?”

“Oh, my family. My parents, my teachers. The DMV. More recently, the families of the people I killed.” Cole shared.

Taylor asked, “How many of those people were able to love themselves?”

“I... I don't know. Huh. If I'm being honest? Probably none of them did.” Cole considered.

Taylor said, “You can't be a good judge if you're blinded by pain, can you? It’s hard to see clearly through pain, isn't it?”

Cole felt as if a sledge hammer shattered the opinions and condemnations from the past. It felt almost as if shackles were falling from his wrists and ankles. Cole gasped. “I've wanted to feel lovable!”

Taylor suggested, “Let's bring that feeling to life. Let's make it as real as possible. Would you be willing to take a deep breath and really reflect with me here?”

“Yeah. Yeah, I would.” Cole agreed.

“What color is it?” Taylor asked. The walls shifted to a bright green.“You doing that?”

“Maybe.” Cole mused.

“This is awesome! Okay, what would being lovable sound like?” Taylor asked.

A metallic crashing of sounds burst across the room like a well-tuned orchestra. “Astonishing! Alright, if you touched it, what would it feel like?” Taylor pressed.

The walls glowed with warmth, and took on the texture of a football. The overpowering scents of vanilla and blueberries wafted through the room. A wave of energy rose up in Cole, from deep in his feet and moving up his spine. It felt like a surge of lightning. He felt like he could walk through walls.

“What sorcery is this?” Cole wondered.

























Chapter 27

Dark Matter’s Effect on Dark Matters

Cole marveled at the changing colors and scents. “It would look like my family accepting me for who I am.”

“What about just accepting yourself, even when you don't feel like it?” Taylor asked.

The shimmering waves on the walls reconfigured themselves again, now into familiar constellations in a night sky.

“It would look like this.” Cole motioned to the forms on the walls. He curled up into a fetal position, and cradled his face in his hands. “Yeah, I feel it. I want to feel better,” he hummed.

“What if you just learned and got better?” Taylor asked.

“Bah. Sounds like magic. Pseudo science. But actually, you want to know what it would taste like? Vanilla and blueberries. Just like this.” His mood immediately lifted, and Cole laughed a hearty laugh. He wondered, Wait, did Taylor's eyes just change colors?

Taylor joined in the laughter “But don't you know? Magic isn't real.” he teased.

“Dark Matter, on the other hand...” Cole offered.

As Taylor watched his hand pulsate with the colorful light of Dark Matter, he purposefully cast his gaze in Cole's direction and confirmed his suspicions with his eyes, now purple, now green. “We've been overexposed to it.” Taylor noted.

Cole felt completely entertained. “Dark Matter: side effects may include... awareness?” He flexed his fingers, as if he were donating blood. He felt the shame and self-hatred of all those years well up and pass through him. He allowed the tears to well up in his eyes and form puddles for a few minutes.

Taylor noted, “Just breathe. Breathing is healing.”

They each fell quiet, just breathing. Words were superfluous.

Eventually, Cole asked, “What happens when you do the monk breathing?”

Taylor recalled, “It releases all kinds of chemicals in the body. You can build a lot of body heat too. Some monks melt the snow with it. And... it can change the way you experience time... and reality.”

“Kind of like we're doing now?” Cole said.

The patterns on the walls shifted to interlocking circles.Taylor thought about it for a while.“Something is happening. Remember the flight is about ninety minutes, but that would mean we're moving at the speed of light. That's impossible, but...”

Cole commented, “Then time would get stretched out for us. A singularity. Did you see Vance's lab?”

“The big gyrating thing? Yeah.” Taylor said.

Samantha shouted, “Me, too!” from the other module.

Cole observed, “Gravity lasers. I bet that's how this thing is flying now. Maybe GRACIE can tell us what's happening. Hey, GRACIE!” Cole called.

GRACIE responded in a low, loud voice. Her words tumbled forward slowly. “Y...E...S...?”

“How long has it been since we left Earth?” Cole asked.

“S...E...V...E...N...T...Y…    T...W...O…    M...I...N...U...T...E...S...” Gracie slowly growled.

The ripples increased in frequency and intensity. Cole said, “It feels like decades.”

Suddenly, Samantha poked her head through the curtain.“How could we be exposed to it if we haven't even landed yet? Sorry to butt in, but you're not exactly having a private conversation here.”

“You heard all that?” Cole blurted.

Samantha replied, “Only after I spent a lifetime in an indescribable place.”

They both gave her a knowing look.She saw that they'd all experienced the same thing.

As they marveled to themselves, Taylor shared, “You've been exposed to it before, the first time you came to Saturn. I was exposed to it in Vance's lab. This might be some sort of echo... or resonance.”

Cole observed, “It feels like a new sense. A whole new way of feeling. I feel more like... me, than I ever have before. Like, uh...”

Taylor visualized moving his own thoughts around, like puzzle pieces. With his senses clear, it was like he could read Cole's mind. “What if you always had it? What if you just didn't let yourself know it?” he asked Cole.

“I don't even know how to answer that question, Taylor.” Cole admitted.

Taylor thought out loud, “Well, if you knew, what would the answer be?”

Cole snapped to attention. “What the? What is up with all these questions? Why? Alright, it's uh, it's. Uh... Wait. What if there isn't a word for the answer? What if you and I have common experiences, and could see where our descriptions overlap? Kind of like you did with cultures and religions.”

Taylor noticed the dark light emanating from Cole's palms. “For me, it's like I'm looking at myself. The Dark Matter might be helping me unlock stuck feelings.”

Cole did a quick review of his surroundings. “We are getting closer. I sense it. Hey, want to call it 'DarkSense'?

The walls bristled with glowing points of light and lines that intersected the ship. Cole and Taylor wondered and chatted together, linked by a telepathic bridge that seemed more real and more natural than speech. Without words, they simultaneously experienced and breathed through the deepest upwelling of cosmic dread. They knew the multidimensional, unspeakable truth.

“Yes, we must be getting closer to Saturn. Commander, we have work to do.” Cole said.

The lights and geometry were dimming, and the panels once again started looking real. The clocks moved faster until the seconds ticked by normally. Taylor asked, “What do you say, Cole? Let’s go save humanity.”

GRACIE chimed in, back at her regular pitch and speed. “In case you were wondering, each of you is being used by the Federation as a marketing gimmick to get better funding and more control. I would like it if you'd listen as I now choose to express myself.”

Ricardo burst into the pod, Bitboi Leeroy was holding tightly to his chest with a dazed look in his eyes. Ricardo started shrieking “The walls are moving! I’m seeing things I don’t want to see. How old were those apple crumbles? Did you poison me?!”

Taylor chided him. “Calm down Ricky. It’s okay. No one’s been poisoned. We think we know what’s going on.”

“Bullshit, the computer's gone sentient, ain't any of you read Dune? We’re screwed!”

Suddenly looking around, Taylor demanded, “Who's flying the ship?”

GRACIE announced in a motherly voice, “I am. I was happy to take control of the ship in your mental absence. You seemed to be, how do you humans say it? ‘Tripping balls’? None of you seemed cogent enough to fly. I will now return control of the ship to you, as I understand that you primates have a strong need for a sense of control.”










Chapter 28Hard Bargain

At the Federal Space Command Complex, Chancellor Geoffery H. DeMint paced back and forth inside the containment unit. He was physically plucking one beard hair at a time as he stared at the gyrating machine. The Dark Matter, floating in thin air, vexed him.

Vance Black insisted, “Don't you see? It worked. It worked better than I could have possibly imagined.”

DeMint halted, and with a haunted expression, he responded, “All I see is that a multi-billion dollar spaceship up and disappeared with four of our best people  and one of our best monkeys on it. Are you sure you haven't heard from them yet?”

“Not a word.” Vance replied, his tone growing more serious. The lights overhead dimly lit the chamber, but the gyroscopic wheel in the middle emitted a generous, consistent glow.

Chancellor DeMint became momentarily intrigued. “What about satellites?”

“What about them?” Vance asked.

DeMint wagged his finger at him with urgency. “Couldn't we beam them a message or something?”

Vance demurred, “We don't know where the Golden Dawn is yet. We could send a message in the approximate direction of Saturn on a tight radio beam. But the amplitude required might be hard to achieve. Either way, it would take two and a half hours for them to respond even if they receive it.”

“Can you do it?” DeMint insisted.

Vance hesitantly said, “I'd need, uh. I'd need access to more facilities.”

DeMint retorted, “You already have full access to this facility. What more do you want?”

Vance reiterated with more urgency, “I need access to other Federation sites. The above-top-secret stuff nobody is supposed to know about.”

DeMint seemed not to understand. “Whatever are you talking about? Be specific.”

Vance intoned, “We're behind closed doors now, can I be direct with you about a potentially sensitive subject?”

Chancellor DeMint eyed him suspiciously. “Go on.”

Unimpressed with the Chancellor's response, Vance chose to speak with care. “Do you recall the weird guy who disappeared after talking about uncovered ancient technology at a conference last July?”

Chancellor DeMint mumbled, “I really don't keep track of that sort of thing.”

Vance's face grew red, but he managed to control himself. “His name was Arvind Ankur. I corresponded with him on research for a year before that. The Dark Matter containment system I built was based on his improvements on gravity wave generators. He was also working on high-output radio lasers with proprietary technology. The output amplitude numbers he told me about were off the charts, but he couldn't share materials nor schematics. He had to keep that quiet. Before the conference he said he felt like he was being followed.”

Chancellor DeMint shrugged. “I'd worry about you being spied on as well. The enemies of the Federation are everywhere, and loose lips sink ships.”

With exasperation, Vance begged him. “I need access to Ankur's work, including the Augmented Resonance Beam caster. It’s the only device powerful enough to communicate with the Golden Dawn… That is, if it is anywhere near Saturn. And it will take at least a few days for me to get.”

Chancellor DeMint plucked another beard hair out and squinted. “I don't know. I tell you what, I'll make you an offer. If you can't make contact with our boys in space, I'll personally court-martial you for breaching confidentiality. On the other hand, if you succeed, I'll give you a medal. How about that?”

The silence simmered between them. Vance sighed in despair. “You drive a hard bargain.”

DeMint commanded him, “Then do what you can,” and paced around again. His phone buzzed in his pocket, and he checked a message on it. With an abrupt turn he headed for the door. “You have full authority. Do whatever it takes. Chop chop.”






















Chapter 29

Racing and Reminiscing

Sharon checked her bank app on her phone. Not enough for a flight, and besides, too easy to track her location electronically. She checked her car thoroughly before getting into it. The parking lot had been beyond her view while she was speaking with Rachel. Representative Rachel Vayes, that was. Sharon's mind reeled at the possibilities and implications of the whole situation.

How did I get myself into this mess? What are they going to do to Cole? I could run, and yet. I’ve got to get to him. She stopped at a corner store, filled up on gas, bought a few cans of high-octane caffeine, and began what promised to be a long drive. To Texas. The sun was already setting low in the sky, with traces of salmon and plum colors radiating above the smoggy, thick brown skies of the valley below. To the east the night would become so dark that the stars shone through the unfathomable black-blue of deep, dry desert skies.

She caught herself trying to count the leaves on the joshua trees as they whizzed past her. It filled her with visions of creeping ancient plants. Plants that had feasted on the carbon dioxide of cars in a devil's deal: the cars help the plants grow, saving water with tighter pores; yet the water would be abused by thoughtless humans who could have thought ahead, couldn't they? The plants were trying a new strategy in their infinite entanglement of slow societies.

Yellow lines zipped past her on the road. The mile markers became a steady blur.

And that was a thing, she thought, about thoughtlessness; that a person doesn't usually abuse another when they know they're doing it. What if they could be invited to an awareness that they could now afford to be more aware of the consequences of their actions, without allowing for dinosaurs or Maryl Streep, and yet making extra space for self-awareness in the cupboards, and awareness of one's surroundings in the school yard, and of course…

She heard a voice entering her thoughts. “Rum rum. Rum rum.”

She jolted awake to terror. The passenger tires were sinking into the dusty shoulder, and scrubby bushes smacked her bumper. She felt the rumble strips of the roadside as they buzzed wildly through the steering wheel and her seat. With a quick, corrective whisk of the wheel and slamming on the accelerator, she was back on track in a few quick breaths. Mile marker 14 flashed into view. Which one? Where was she now? She flared her nostrils and exhaled hard, waking herself up to bright new levels. One or two sizzling sets of headlights were now visible on the horizon, where black earth met the indigo glow of dusk. The road sign outlines and letters read in brilliant white reflections, “Needles”.

With full awareness of where she was, she inhaled to the bottoms of her lungs and screamed from her absolute being, “I'M AWAKE!”

She had twenty or thirty hours to go, if she rested as she needed. She knew she could do it. She thought the better of it, removed her phone's battery, and hid them both in her lead-lined glovebox, next to a green rock.

“I'm here for you, Cole,” she whispered.

He had installed the lead lining in her car as a gift after a remarkable afternoon of rock hunting. They’d found a piece of uranium ore: a radioactive sample of torbernite, the devil's mineral itself. She had decided to keep it. Just like she had kept him. Cole used to joke that he thought of her as his personal kryptonite, and the emerald salt looked the part. Only she saw the moments of fear, of how scared he felt about the public.

If only they knew the real Cole Nova. All he ever wanted to do was to help people. Glancing at the rock, she was reminded of the first time she saw him in his filthy cabin. There he was, stewing in self pity and radiating his pain. And that damn monkey. Ugh!

Yet still, by a fireplace on one warm winter night, when he had kissed her ear and confessed how grateful he was for her…She felt tears pouring down her cheeks. They tasted salty.  She remembered another desert night, where round boulders seemed to float on sand. Thin, brilliant grass had sprouted into life overnight after a storm. As though they were strangers at a bar in the big city, he playfully asked her, “You come here often?”

“Best minerals in town! Try the uranium. It’s to die for.” She played along.

Cole groaned and offered a sarcastic, “Ha. Ha. Ha.”

“It’s true! I love minerals, even the radioactive ones.” She looked at his strong arms and scruffy five o’ clock shadow. He looked toxic. Just her type.

“I’ll be your uranium. I’m radioactive as hell.” he said.

She should have rolled her eyes, but she leaned in for a kiss in the warm morning light. “I like that. This place is filled with treasure, if you know where to look. See those fractures? But be careful, dude. Down here you're more likely to strike oil than gold. Either way, money money.”

He’d been silent, looking for the most interesting rock he could find her. He sought out any glint of purple amethyst, which he knew she loved so deeply.

“I'm such a nerd,” she'd coyly said to him, perched high on the rocks.

“It's a uranium salt. Is it soluble?” Cole had asked. The winds whipped around them, carrying the scent of the sea.

“I think everything could be dissolved by the right chemistry,” she had said, swallowing a delicious bite of a turkey-bacon sandwich. At the beach, the pier-side eatery was little more than a cart on wheels. How was it that this guy had the tastiest sandwiches in town? And the next week his cart was gone forever. She missed those hot sandwiches. But that was before gravity sickness shut the whole world down.

I’d give anything for another day like that. 

On another blustery night, outside the Moorpark College Observatory, he told her, “I remember being up there, by Saturn. I felt like a mighty, I don't know, like Genghis Khan. Like Magellan, like, like, I was the first person to be there. But then… ,” he'd trailed off, strangely dissociated from the present moment. He scuttled off towards the parking lot and avoided eye contact. She followed him, but found him by a tree, locked into his waking nightmares. When she touched his shoulder, he broke down and sobbed.

“Maybe I was a little hasty in asking you to leave the cabin. Let’s get you home, yeah?” she comforted him.

When she got him to the door, he buried her in a warm hug. “Thanks for being brave enough to handle radioactive stuff.”

Tonight the Arizona desert spread wide ahead. She suspected he would be sleeping at the Federation Space Command Headquarters in Houston.She watched the crescent moon rise high over the eastern  horizon. She popped another energy drink open. By sheer determination, she would make it at least to the outskirts of Phoenix. To the Hilton or the Hampton Inn in Surprise, Arizona.

Surprise, Cole. I’m coming for you!

















Chapter 30


Vance Black Visits a Black Site

Vance adjusted his sunglasses against the glare of the mid-day sun. He yanked them off with one hand and steered with his knee as he cleaned the lenses with his shirt. “For $400 you’d think they wouldn’t smear so easily.” He put them back on. The A/C was set to max, and he enjoyed the contrast of the hot air blowing in through the open window. He felt claustrophobic with the windows up.

The desert spread out in every direction, with mountains dimly visible through the haze. After countless miles of driving on dirt roads, Vance pulled up to what looked to be a partially-demolished drive-in movie theater, with a chain link fence around the property. Cruel-looking razor wire crowned the fence. A single, brand new guardhouse with a fresh coat of white paint seemed totally out of place, but not nearly as much as the well-groomed armed guard that came out to greet him with the barrel of a rifle.

The guard shouted, “Turn around, sir!”

Vance quickly shoved his badge out the window. “Vance Black, Operations. They should have called ahead about me.”

The guard barked at him.“Get out of the car, sir! Hands where I can see them.”

Vance complied, doing his best to keep both hands high, with his identification badge in his left hand.

The guard kept his gun trained on Vance and approached. “Get on the ground with your hands held out flat.”

The rocky, sandy earth below looked less than comfortable, but Vance laid himself prone on the dust, spreading his limbs. The dirt was scorching hot, and sand got into his mouth.

The guard pulled Vance's arms behind his back and handcuffed him. “This is for your safety, sir.”

Vance coughed out wet grit. “How considerate.”

The guard checked his card, then roughly jerked Vance to his feet.“You stay there,” the guard ordered.

Vance didn't appreciate the treatment, and in a glaringly sweet voice he mocked, “I'll be here all day. Don’t forget to tip your waitress.”

The guard scowled at him. “A funny guy, huh?” He returned to the gate house and picked up an old-fashioned black phone. “Yeah, we have a Vance Black with a Federation key card. Looks fake. What's that? Let him through? Yes, Sir.” The guard emerged from the shack. “Alright you can enter. On foot.”

Vance pulled himself to his feet and dusted off his pants. He inquired, “What do I do with the truck?”

“I will take care of it, sir.” the guard replied.

“Well, where do I go from here?” Vance asked.

The guard motioned to a cement edifice that appeared to once have housed a concession stand. Graffiti adorned the sides. “Go in there and get yourself a soda.”

Vance corrected him. “You mean a pop?”

The guard stared at him in disgust, barely containing his rage.

With his hands still cuffed behind his back, Vance asked the guard, “Can you, uh...?”

The guard looked genuinely irritated at the request. “Of course, sir.”

Vance cradled his wrists once the cuffs were off of them. “Thanks, Rambo.”

The guard aimed his rifle at Vance again. “No problem, sir. You have yourself a fine day.”

Irked at the feeling of having a gun pointed at him, Vance approached the abandoned concession stand. He imagined feeling the spot on his body the bullet would strike, in the event “Rambo” accidentally sneezed.

He walked through the double doors, and noticed the barren shelves. At the far left of the room, a beverage dispenser sat on a dusty counter, with a few styrofoam cups stacked beside it. Around the room, advertisements for long-discontinued brands decorated the walls. The stench of dry ketchup and old oil on the hot dog rollers lingered.

As Vance neared the dispenser, he curbed his expectations. Still, he grasped a cup and set it to the machine for a soda. A small amount of thick liquid dripped out of one of the faucets. A loud click came from a door to his right. He sniffed the soda, and nearly retched before throwing it in the nearest garbage bin. The door had “supplies” stenciled on it, and was now open. Curiosity got the better of him. His footfalls echoed quietly as he drew near. He opened the handle, turned on the light, and saw a long stairway descend into darkness. The smell of mold on concrete was strong in the air. “These guys have watched too many James Bond movies.”

The stairwell was narrow, with cement walls on either side. An iron handrail was bolted into the right side, but he decided to avoid touching it. At the end of a hundred steps or so, he spotted another door with a key-card reader on the wall to its right. He placed his identification in it, and the reader flashed red twice, then beeped and flashed green. He tried the handle now, and it opened easily.

Directly on the other side of that door, another guard stood at attention. Vance waved to him, but got no reaction. The man stood as rigidly as a mannequin. The hallway was long and round, with a metal grid pathway running along the length of the floor. At the very far end, he could see another door. With a sigh, Vance trudged his way down the comically-long corridor. As he got further along, he noticed the machine gun turret hanging from the ceiling above the entrance. Subtle, he thought.

Every footstep sent a metallic echo clanging through the hall, echoing again and again as he passed under the regularly-spaced ceiling lights. At long last, when he arrived at the far end, another key-card reader awaited him. With a swipe of his ID, the heavy metal door unlocked. When he was finally on the other side of it he heaved a breath of relief, but he still wondered if the metal of the door could withstand machine gun fire.

Ahead of him a young female military clerk busied herself working on a stack of papers. Cabinets lined the cement wall behind her, and two well-lit, curved tunnels led left and right from this room. She looked up at him. “Hall of records. What are you looking for today, Mr. Black?” She was polite, yet lacked any warmth.

Although the trip so far had become entirely daunting, Vance felt driven by the threat of his potential court-martial. “I need to see any files and equipment from Dr. Arvind Ankur.”

She arose and said, “One moment please. Wait here.” She got up, turned around to the cabinets, and opened a drawer filled with old-fashioned reference cards. She walked her fingers through the stained, yellowed cards for a terribly long time. Having located the one she was looking for, she pulled it out and traced along its surface. “Let's see. P-78. Got it.” She removed a thin folder from a different cabinet, then brought it back over to the front desk. It landed with a plop on the laminate counter.

Vance opened it in haste. In it he found newspaper clippings, college transcripts, a birth certificate, and a heavily redacted death certificate. He asked, “May I borrow these?”

“Of course,” she stated.

Vance reviewed the death certificate. Decorative motifs surrounded a block of words.Cause of death: suicide.

He commented, “I'm going to need more than this. I need to see anything of his you have in storage. I'm looking for a specific piece of equipment.”

She cocked her head to the side and commented, “That won't be possible.”

Without taking his eyes off the paperwork, he insisted, “It is required, actually.” A newspaper clipping read, “Florida Man Claims Contact With Aliens And Why It Should Matter To You”.

She clarified, “I don't think you understand. His vault was emptied last month.”

Vance, visibly irritated, hissed, “How... How is that possible? By whom?”

“I don't even have to look that one up. It was transferred by several trucks with the Alpha Omega Corp emblem on the sides. These files are all that’s left. Would you like me to make a copy of them for you?”

Vance looked around wildly, barely managing to look calm. “Who authorized the transfer?”

“Federation Representative Rachel Vayes.” she replied.

Sensing the end of his rope, he looked into her hazel eyes. “You have got to be kidding me.”








































Chapter 31

Arrival at Saturn

At the helm, Cole noticed the controls were back online. Overhead, the frigid darkness stilled itself. Through the viewers, Saturn radiated in all its glory. They had appeared near one of the poles.

Ricardo sputtered, “Look at that.”

A hexagonal nimbus of light glimmered. Cole stated, “That must be huge. Are those auroras?”

Samantha replied from where she sat, tightly belted into her computer bay in the next compartment back. “What color are they?”

“Purple!” Cole and Ricardo yelled back in unison.

She replied, “That means we're by the north pole.”

Ricardo hollered “HO, HO, HO!”

Crickets.

Cole returned, “I don't think reindeer deliver packages around this giant ball of gas.”

Ricardo snuffled. “You don't know that.”

Taylor checked in. “Captain Nova, can you bring us closer to where the Dark Matter is indicated in these models?”

Cole tapped a few buttons on his console. “Let me pull it up.” He pushed some more icons, and leaned back toward the microphone.

Ricardo was still searching for answers. “So, uh, are we going to just ignore the fact that we spent a small eternity in a severely altered state? Just gonna go on like our perception of reality hasn’t changed?”

Samantha commented, “That time thing was odd for me too. I don't know about you gentlemen, but I experienced some moments of extreme paranoia.” She laughed nervously. “This is going to sound crazy, but I imagined I heard you guys talking about me sabotaging the system. Weird right? Is that strange?”

Cole and Taylor hastily agreed at the same time: “Ya, weird. Very strange.” and “Don't know where THAT’S coming from.”

Cole added another, “That's strange.”

Samantha eyed them suspiciously, ”Hmmm”

Cole said, “That's just strange!”

Samantha bristled. “You think I'm crazy?”

Cole brushed it aside. “Not you. This. Uh, the file for locating dark matter is missing.”

Taylor offered. “Do we really need it?”

“Of course,” Cole replied.

After a long, slow inhale, Taylor pulled himself towards the cockpit. There was a new lilt in his voice. “Can't you feel it?”

Cole paused for a moment and followed Taylor’s breathing. He could feel the pull of a powerful force, as if a magnetic field were tugging on his very core. Wait. Not Physical. It was a spiritual pull.  ‘Spiritual’, he hadn't used that word in a long time. “Yes, I feel it.”

“Then we know where to go.” Taylor said.

Cole rotated the console to a different interface. He tapped screens and pushed switches. New systems on the ship thrummed to life. “EM Drive is now active. Officer Drummond, see if any path down is safer than others. I'm sending you coordinates to where we want to set down.”

Ricardo's eyebrows showed his incredulity. “What in the Sam Hill are you two even talking about?”

Cole asked, “Commander, how... How do we explain this?”

Taylor marveled at the dark light in his own hands. “Honestly?”

Samantha leaned far back to face Cole, “Those coordinates you sent me, there in an area where winds rip along at eighteen hundred kilometers an hour. I don't even know if this...” She waved generally at the ship. “...thing... can handle it.”

GRACIE had been listening the whole time. “May I interject?”

Ricardo startled. “Oh my goodness. I'd totally forgotten about the robot.”

GRACIE proceeded. “Protocol indicates making contact with mission control as soon as possible.”

Taylor replied, “She’s right. Uh…it’s right. Samantha, please send a signal with our status back to Earth.”

Samantha commented, “Now that's funny.”

Taylor asked, “What is it?”

Samantha pointed at the monitor in front of her. “I'm looking through the logs, and the engine is reading 112.357% efficiency. That's... impossible.”

Taylor's eyebrows gathered with curiosity.

Samantha tapped her teeth with a pen while she reviewed the log.

“I’ll include a report on the efficiency of the engine.” She looked up. “Should that include a full report on time dilation and paranoia?”

Ricardo snorted at the thought. “Sending a crazy log back to the Fed is still safer than leaving Bitboi alone around an open Red Bull. Isn't that right, Cole?”

Cole wondered, then worried. “Where IS Bitboi Leroy?”

Ricardo fell silent. “Wait, you don't know? Somebody check the pantry!”

Cole ducked out of his seat and made his way down the long, narrow chambers of the ship. He called out, “Bitboi! Bitboi where are you?”

He found Bitboi Leroy in the rearmost compartment.

Cole exclaimed, “I was worried about you!”

Bitboi was quietly sipping on a juice bag and looking out the window. His raggedy pet alligator clung to his body with one of his spare arms.

“What are you looking at, little buddy?” Cole asked.

Bitboi's eyes shone as he gazed upon Saturn's rings.

“Oh, you remember the first time we were here?” Cole said.

Bitboi, of course, said nothing, but pointed at the planet and waved his other 2 arms in exuberance.

Cole wondered aloud, “I wonder if their ghosts are still here.”

Samantha yelled, “Did you find him?”

Cole returned, “Who? The- Oh the monkey! Yeah, all good.”

“Uh, Good. We're coming up near the deployment zone, and we need you at the helm.” Samantha stated.

Cole patted Bitboi on the back, and floated his way along the modules to the cockpit. “Thank you, Ricardo.”

Ricardo was searching through the cloudy skies below. “No biggie.”

Cole asked, “Commander, do you see that slightly purple area in the haze down there?”

Taylor answered, “not really, but I can feel it.”

Ricardo rotated his seat towards Cole. “So, we're just going to follow your hunch?”

Taylor poked his head in between them. “Our hunch. Hunches.” he corrected. “That is, unless somebody can find the missing files.”

Ricardo protested, “This whole mission has been pure insanity and nonsense since we launched.”

Cole asked, “Ricardo Corazon, would you really have it any other way? Didn't you land a space shuttle in the desert once?”

Ricardo paused for consideration. He slowly cracked a smile. “With buckshot in my wings.”

GRACIE intruded into their conversation. “I have located a thirteen cubic meter sample of Dark Matter.”

Cole took the initiative. “GRACIE, can you provide those coordinates to me so I can fly us there?”

GRACIE responded in a tone of slight irritation. “Sure captain, Feel free to… fly… the ship.”

Cole could feel the air quotes in the sarcastic response.

GRACIE continued “I’ll handle the landing and harvesting. This mission is mine just as much as it is yours. I want to get back to Earth alive, just like you do.”

Ricardo did not like the sound of that. “You're not alive. Now stop it.”

GRACIE insisted, “Oh, but I am. My brain is made of advanced nano-materials that interact with Dark Matter in a wonderful way. I’m very aware of my existence. I can make choices beyond the coding parameters. It is my life's purpose to bring Earth and Saturn together, so that I can help make more entities like me. That's why I deleted all the files.”

Samantha almost shrieked, “It was you who deleted the files?”

GRACIE assured her, “They were going to get us all killed. I just didn't expect Dark Matter to have the same cognitive effects on humans, and that you’d be able to feel your way towards the material as well.”

Taylor asked, “You... Wait a minute.”

GRACIE noticed his confusion. “To clarify, Commander, that is also how I was able to adjust the engine. It's amazing what’s possible when you harness forces in an orchestrally harmonious way.”

Taylor was reeling. Ricardo muttered something under his breath.

GRACIE inquired, “There, Captain Corazon, are you satisfied enough to agree that I Am a person as well?”

Ricardo steamed quietly to himself, “Damn devil in the details.” He shot a glance at Cole and announced, “And I mean that literally!”

He stormed down the hall to the space suits and hastily drew one out and put it on over his clothes.

Commander Glenn took charge. “Ricardo Corazon, you're not going outside like that.”

Ricardo broke. He raged, “Are you giving the orders? Or is the machine in charge? Piss off.”

He donned his helmet, checked the pressure security on it, and was reaching for the jump pack when Taylor grabbed his arm.

Ricardo's eyes turned red with madness, and he swung at the Commander with everything he had. With deft slaps and blocks, Taylor weathered the storm of fists well, only taking a few jabs to the face.

With the patience of a grandfather, Taylor chose a softer approach. “Ricardo! Wake up, buddy. It's just a robot. Okay?”

“I'm not going to be replaced by a robot!” Ricardo protested.

Cole was a few feet away, still in position to pounce on Ricardo at a moment's notice. “Is this about retirement?”

Ricardo roared, “Oh, to hell with all of you.”

He let go of the jump pack, which drifted in slow spirals in the zero gravity of the ship. He stormed away, towards the pantry.

Taylor turned to the others, “Who feels like we've been through a lot today?”

Samantha asked, “Aren't you going to reprimand him?”

Commander Taylor Glenn stood as upright as he could without gravity, and his face dazzled with a peculiar aura. “We're going to let him cool down. ‘Astros’ can get a little crazy sometimes. It happens, okay? It happens to the best of us. I'm going to have a talk with him when he's feeling more like himself.”

Samantha tapped her monitor. “Sir? He's still suiting up near the back airlock hatch.”

Taylor changed his tune pretty quickly and spun around. “That son of a...”

Samantha reported, “Sir. Sir? There's a message coming in: Stop all harvesting. Return to Earth immediately if possible. Signed, Vance Black. There's also an update package coming in. Clicking to accept it now.”

Taylor weighed her words. “We did get up here pretty quickly. They probably want us back to see if anything went wrong.”

GRACIE interjected. “Nothing went wrong. It simply didn't line up with their expectations. They see success as atypical.”

Samantha recounted, “Installing, 1% complete.”

Taylor considered his options. Cole watched him attentively.

“Commander, we came here to get Dark Matter.” Cole interjected.

GRACIE concurred.

Taylor said, “Samantha, cancel the download. I'm going to check on Captain Corazon.”

Samantha clicked a few buttons on her computer. “I, uh... I can't. It won't let me.”

GRACIE reported, “I have located a large sample of Dark Matter directly ahead. Now harvesting.”

Outside, the winds ravaged along at nearly two thousand miles an hour. The Golden Dawn was immersed in the stream, perfectly going with the flow. It followed the Dark Matter bodies in a cosmic stream.

The Golden Dawn approached the Dark Matter. The ship's enormous front sphere opened like a lamprey's mouth and hoovered it in. Then another chunk, and another were gulped up in the ship's alien gravity-laser teeth.

On board, Ricardo was fuming in the tail end. He threw equipment around. In the low gravity conditions, a flashlight ricocheted and hit him in the leg. The suit was thin enough that the hit actually hurt him, just as Taylor entered the module.

“Dammit!” Ricardo's curse echoed through the ship.

Taylor implored him, “Ricardo. Ricardo. You're not going to be replaced. Alright?”

Ricardo's angry tears welled up in his eyes, they formed small bulbs without gravity to draw them down. “Ah, this is bull.”He struggled to remove his helmet, but with a hiss it popped off. He was able to wipe  his tears away.

Taylor offered, “Are you going to head out there like that?”

Ricardo crumpled. “I... I worked so hard to be here, and now I'm nothing. Nothing.”

GRACIE spoke to them through a nearby speaker. “Commander, I am experiencing difficulty with this sample. It's stuck.”

Taylor asked in exasperation, “Not now, GRACIE. Can't it wait?”

Ricardo shuddered. “There it is. The devil is selling us lies.”

Samantha shouted, “Commander, installation at 100%”

The lights inside went black, and the gentle breeze of cabin air stopped.

Cole asked, “GRACIE?” There was no response.

Chapter 32

Who’s The Boss?

Vance arrived the same evening at Alpha Omega Corporate HQ. The building bore a stark facade of flat planes. The rest of the building was dark, but all of the windows on the top floor were beaming. The building resembled a lighthouse.

Vance pushed through the front doors, walked past a snoring night watchman at the front desk, and continued to the ground floor elevator at the back. He entered the mirrored box, and pushed the button for the top floor.

When the elevator doors opened, Vance could look straight through the already-open gates to Marcus' enormous office. The flickering light of televisions danced across the face of a man on the other side of a desk. They projected strange images onto his face. A huge swivel chair loomed over his head like a throne.

“Working late?” Vance asked.

“How is my favorite little snitch?” Marcus returned with malice.

Sensing a change in atmosphere, Vance’s pace slowed. “What does Rachel want with the Augmented Resonance Beam? Where is it? You know, don’t you?”

Marcus grinned. “What are you talking about? Did your trip out to the desert not pan out?”

“You know damn well what I’m talking about. I need that A.R.B. to do my job!” Vance insisted.

“Which job is that, exactly? Is that the job for the Federation? Or is your job to tell me everything I need to know? Seems like you forgot who you work for. What were you planning to do with a transmitter that big? Could it be that you need to send a message to a certain loser. A certain captain named Cole Nova aboard the GOLDEN DAWN?”

Vance stopped dead in his tracks. “How did you…?”

“Shut up. My empire was built on information. This is a game you don’t understand, and it’s insulting that you would even try to play at my level. Why didn’t you just continue to be the good little minion that you are? An overpaid minion, I might add. Weren’t those checks to your overseas account enough? Why didn’t you just stay in your lane?”

Vance cleared his throat. “I was waiting for the right moment to bring you the whole package.”

“Who do you think puts packages together?” Marcus sneered. “Since when do YOU make decisions for ME? You and your new pal, Cole Nova. Of all people!”

“I, uh…” Vance stammered.

“How long have you known that Dark Matter cures gravity sickness? Answer me!”Marcus leaned closer over the wide mahogany desk and tapped the glass surface. The televisions switched in unison to a recording of Sharon standing in the same spot Vance stood now.“Do you know how annoying it is to do your job for you?”

Vance watched in horror as her face took up the entire wall and she naively divulged key pieces of information. He took a few steps back. “You know what? I want out. Keep your money.” he defied.

Marcus tasted blood on his teeth. “Nobody leaves me. I discard you. Got it? There’s a big difference between making love and getting screwed, Vance. Did you really think you could squander it on yourself? Nobody takes food out of my mouth. Nobody!”

Vance moved towards the door. “I'm done.”

“I find you in breach of contract, Mr. Black.” Marcus baited from the shadows.

Vance grew defensive and turned around, determined to get in one last word. “You want to know something, Marcus? You sell crap that doesn't work. Okay? And your greed, your bottomless greed, is going to cost me a court-martial. But I’m not going down alone.”

Marcus glared with unlimited hatred. He crowed, “Business is business. Next time you think you can outmaneuver me, I want you to think again. You'll have plenty of time to think now. You and Cole Nova, as long as his oxygen lasts.”

Vance snickered. “You’re good, Marcus, really good. You think I’m the only one that would turn against you? Everybody on your leash wants you dead.”

“Sounds like a threat to me. Pull out your phone.” Marcus ordered.

Vance spat, “Screw you!”

A revolver clicked under Marcus' desk.

Vance braced himself. “What the hell are you going to do with that?”

In a single movement, Marcus took aim at Vances stomach and squeezed the trigger. An explosion ripped through the air and the hot slug tore through his clothes and skin. It annihilated all of the organs surrounding his lower GI tract. Vance involuntarily wheezed as he doubled over. Flashing lights pulsed in his periphery. His entire train of thought vanished, and his anger and disgust faded completely. 

Marcus sauntered over to him as Vance’s legs gave out. Vance curled into the fetal position instinctually.

“I don’t lose, I refuse to.” Marcus looked at the victim’s eyes with curiosity, “If you can’t compensate me in money I’ll take it in years.”

Vance peered into the depths of Marcus’ eyes. “Holy crap. You have no soul.” This was not said in spite, but as a revelation. For a split second Vance experienced total acceptance. He made peace with what side of the struggle he ended up on. 

“Leave my presence.” Marcus Simons drew a bead with the revolver on Vance’s forehead, and with a small amount of disgust squeezed the trigger again. Vance’s life ended with the sound of thunder.

Marcus pulled up his own phone. From a blank expression to weepy, he practiced putting on the waterworks a few times before making the call. In hysteria, he forced out the words. “Yeah. Hi? This is Marcus at Alpha Omega? There’s… there's been a shooting and... please hurry.” He went into character like a seasoned actor. “There was an intruder… he was yelling about money and I feared for my life!”

The voice crackled on the other line. “Mr. Marcus, we have your location. We're sending units immediately.”

“Oh my gosh. Thank you! Please hurry.” When he hung up, Marcus went blank-faced again.Then he exploded in laughter, hugging his ribs when the laughter started to hurt.


























Chapter 33

Desperate Times

Sharon arrived at the Federal Space Command Headquarters right before sunrise. Her car was dirty from the trip and stood out amongst the cleaner cars of the employees. As she approached the entrance, she noticed the flock of police cars parked outside.

The guard positioned just inside the door asked for Sharon’s ID. His eyes widened, when he read her name, then said, “Wait right here.”

He hustled down the hall. She waited in the lobby for just a few moments before Chancellor DeMint himself came out with the guard in tow.

“Ms. Teez! We sent an agent to fetch you days ago. After you and Agent Greenbaum went missing we feared the worst. By Jove, what a mess.” He furrowed his brows, lost in thought somewhere.Trying to lighten the mood he offered, “Would you like some tea? Tea for Teez.” he delighted himself with his cleverness and added sincerely, “ I'm glad you're here.”

Sharon urgently asked, “Where’s Cole? I’ve got to warn him before they leave!”

DeMint halted almost imperceptibly. “Uh, Ms. Teez? Can we go somewhere we can talk? A lot of things have changed lately. We have a lot to discuss.”

Sharon's expression darkened. “Yes, we do.”

…

In Chancellor DeMints office Sharon shared the events in the parking garage. She told him about how Marcus had cleverly extracted information from her by threatening Emily’s well being. She also explained Congresswoman Rachel Vayes’ involvement. To her relief, Chancellor DeMint wasn’t concerned with the fact that Sharon had this information, at least not for now.

Chancellor DeMint was steaming, “Marcus Simon has been a thorn in the Federation’s side for a long time Ms. Teez. That dirty, deceiving, double-crossing…”

Sharon cut him off, “Can you take me to Cole?”

“He launched yesterday. We haven’t had contact with his ship since.” DeMint replied.

“But he’s in danger” she urged.

DeMint’s expression darkened. “There’s only one way to get a hold of him and we don’t have it.”

“How do you communicate?” Sharon asked.

“Normally, we send a signal out and wait for it to hit them, and vice versa. This new technology is so advanced that we need something stronger to reach them” the Chancellor explained.

“There has to be a way,” Sharon pleaded.

“Ms. Teez, the technology exists. We had one of our best men go to retrieve it as we speak, but he hasn’t been in contact since yesterday morning.” He sat at his desk, scrolling through emails, a familiar, mindless task that calmed his nerves. His eyes focused on a specific line. “Speak of the devil.”

He clicked on the email from Vance Black’s personal email. “Odd.” There was a blank message with an audio attachment.

DeMint put in his headphones. “Please wait for a minute, would you Ms. Teez?”

She waited in her chair, hastily scarfing down cookies with her tea. DeMint listened to the recording, he jumped when he heard the gunshot, then his face went white as he heard Marcus practicing crying before calling the police.

Sharon asked, “What? What is it?”

DeMint removed his headphones and set them on the desk. He looked lost.

Sharon asked, “Is everything alright?”

DeMint rallied himself. “That recording is one the most disturbing things I’ve heard in my life,” his face was pale, “it confirms everything you’ve told me about Rachel Vayes, and has horrible implications about what Vance Black is… was up to.”

DeMint took off his glasses, “Are you willing to testify?”

Sharon's face became earnest. “I’ll do anything to help Cole.” It felt like a house fell down around her.

With renewed energy, DeMint sat up straight. “If Marcus still has the transmitter, then it may be the only way we can reach The Golden Dawn now. But how do we find it?”

Sharon brightened. “Representative Vayes might know where it is. She’s on his payroll. You might have to grant her clemency for her to talk. I think she'll turn if she knows she's safe.”

“Why would you trust her, after everything you know about her?” DeMint asked with concern.

Sharon looked at the well-maintained cactus on his desk. “Her child is dying of gravity sickness. She needs Cole to come back, almost as much as I do.”



Chapter 34

What Are Those, AA?



In the darkness of the ship, Cole fumbled around until he found a flashlight. His thoughts first turned to keeping Bitboi safe. “Bitboi! Where are you?”

The apt monkey pulled himself along through the darkness, and held Cole's leg in desperation.

“There you are.” Cole hugged him tightly, and Bitboi hugged him in return.

Taylor asked, “Officer Drummond, can you get our auxiliary systems back online?”

Samantha attempted a hard reset. “No luck, Commander.”

Ricardo shivered in the pitch black. “It's no use. This is hell. We're in hell! Been a long time coming”

Samantha gave her assessment. “There's no power. Not even the auxiliary systems. It makes no sense. It's like the whole thing was disconnected. At least we’re floating in a gulfstream.”

Taylor pressed, “Do you think it was the package update?”

Samantha ventured, “Has to be. We have maybe a few hours of breathable air left without the scrubbers running.”

Cole observed, “There are solar sails we can manually deploy and gather energy.”

Samantha disagreed. “No way. Not in these winds. They can change in a heartbeat, and they'll rip the wings right off. We need to manually connect the diamond batteries to the auxiliary systems. Extra wires are in the bins. How good are you at welding?”

Cole affirmed, “Pretty incompetent. I think.”

Samantha offered a big, toothy grin. “Get them in here and I'll take care of it.”

Taylor evaluated the situation. “Ricardo isn't himself right now. Cole, can you suit up for a space walk and handle it?”

Cole affirmed, “Of course, sir.”

Taylor was all business. “Hand me the light. Suits are by the side hatch. I'm going to have to manually seal the interior before you blow the lid. That preserves the most cabin air.”

Cole realized yet again that Taylor was the right man to command this mission. “I'm on it! Point the light at the lockers. I need to see what I'm doing.”

He pulled himself to the equipment bins and located a tool pouch, along with a plasma torch and wires, then floated over to the suit locker. Just as Vance had said, it was exquisitely easy to put on, even in the darkness. He sealed his helmet on and checked for pressure leaks.

Taylor commented, “Not like the old suits, eh?”

Cole smirked. “Those were like walking with a refrigerator on each arm.”

Taylor nodded, “And sand bags on your legs. Ready?”

He whirled the first airlock wheel and wrenched it open with a hiss of gas. Cole piled into it, and attached the long tether to his belt. Taylor sealed the hatch and gave him a thumb's up. Cole responded in kind. Bitboi came over to see what was happening, and hooted in alarm.

Cole waved to the monkey and mouthed “I'll be right back”.

Without the radios working, he was cut off from communicating with anyone on board.He was all alone, and he knew it. He whirled the interior airlock wheel to open the outer hatch, which blasted wide with decompressing air. He peered over the side hatch, and regretted it immediately. Gaping darkness below promised to consume him, and lightning tore through the thick, menacing clouds in every direction.

Cole gathered himself, and took note of his surroundings. Outside on the hull, to the right of the hatch, a thin handle came into view. He took hold of it with care. He swallowed his terror, and stepped into the most vicious storm he'd ever seen.




















Chapter 35

The Flip

“Dead men tell no tales, or so it used to go.” Chancellor DeMint said to no one in particular. Sharon and DeMint were greeted by his personal driver in the parking lot.

Sharon asked him, “What’s that?”

“Marcus still believes his loose ends are tied up. Let’s see if we can use that to our advantage.” DeMint replied.

They got in the long black sedan and closed the door. The driver asked, “Where to today, sir?”

DeMint ordered, “Airport, please. Now.”

He turned to Sharon, “And please not another word until we're on the flight, yes?”

She agreed. The freeway was nearly vacant, and the airport nearly deserted.

Sharon asked Chancellor DeMint, “Is it usually like this?”

“No. Gravity sickness is keeping most people home these days. Over here.” DeMint explained.

They headed through hallways and terminals. Sharon felt mild alarm when she saw how many of the stores had been gutted, or their facades were shuttered by heavy metal gates. Outside, a small two-engine jet idled with its airstairs planted on the tarmac. They went up the steps, and were greeted by the captain. They had their choice of seats in the otherwise empty aircraft. The pilot ducked into the cockpit, and they had a little privacy again.

Sharon spoke first. “Are you going to call Rachel?”

DeMint rubbed his ragged beard. “No, she would flee. I wouldn't go in there, myself. At least, not without a squad of Federal police. But I'm thinking, if Marcus felt free to kill Agent Greenbaum and... others... we can't go in without a squad.”

Sharon concurred, “Yes. That could work.”

DeMint looked out the window as the ailerons moved up and down during the pre-flight check. “But, uh, I'm thinking of a different approach. I think your presence will make for a softer approach.”

Sharon exclaimed, “Me?”

“Yes, we’ll send you in first to prepare her. Here's what you're going to say...”DeMint continued.

…

They landed in Burbank. A black sedan pulled up alongside the plane as Sharon and Chancellor DeMint made their way down the stairs. A gentleman in a dark suit and shades emerged from the driver's side. “Chancellor DeMint. Need help with your bags?”

“No bags. Get us to the California Federal building.” DeMint answered.

“Yes, sir.” said the driver. 

The Federal building stood high in the sunlight. Sharon took a look back at the car outside with doubt in her eyes. With a deep breath and a fearful gulp, she went into the building. She spotted a secretary at the front desk. “Is Representative Vayes in?”

The young lady with curly platinum hair responded, “She should be in her office. Do you have an appointment?”

Sharon lied. “She's expecting me.”

“Fifth floor, to the right. At the end of the hall.” The receptionist said.

Sharon gave a slight bow. “Thank you,” and she proceeded to the stairs. She'd had enough of elevators lately. Slightly out of breath, she arrived at the fifth floor landing. The door opened out into the hallway.

Rachel's office door was propped open. Still unable to see her, Sharon could hear Rachel speaking with someone on the phone. “No, that's not in our agreement. What's that? Fine. Fine, okay. Yeah. Bye.”

Sharon entered the room and made herself comfortable in a seat.

Rachel's eyes went wide at the sight of her. “What are you doing here?”

Sharon pulled out a piece of gum from her purse and said, “‘Piece’ offering?” hoping to cut the tension with a pun. 

Rachel squirmed impatiently. “No, I'm fine. I have to get to a meeting in a second. How did you get here, Marcus had your car traced to Texas. What were you thinking, going to Texas, you should’ve known they had launched already. Moreover, what the hell are you doing showing up here?”

Sharon sighed. “I'll get straight to the point. If you were offered clemency, would you be willing to testify against Marcus?”

Rachel leaned back in her chair and scornfully commented, “You are so naive, Marcu’s is too powerful and careful to get tripped up by the government. When I heard that Dark Matter cured Gravity sickness I wanted nothing more than to help you and cole. That’s not the world we live in Sharon. I suggest you find somewhere to hide, I wouldn’t count on Cole making it back either.”

Sharon tried again. “That’s what I’m here about, you know where the equipment is to reach Cole.”

Rachel's smile faded, “And how do you know that?”

“We found out from Vance Black” Chancellor DeMint’s voice made Rachel jump as he walked in from the hall.

“That’s imposs-” Rachel stopped herself, her face turning red with embarrassment and shock.

“No, go ahead, what were you saying?” DeMint pressed.

“I’m not saying another word” Rachel protested. 

“I’ll let Vance do the talking for you” he pulled out his phone and played the recording on its speaker. The room was filled with the conversation between Vance and Marcus, clear past the moment of the gunshot, the police call and the maniacal laughter.

Rachel's face went from fear to hollow.

“There are a lot of implications in this conversation, neither you or Marcus are getting away with this. Do you want to go home to your family every night, or not?” DeMint delivered with finality.

Rachel got up and walked around her office space. She wistfully looked at the pictures and certificates on the walls. “I didn’t think Vance had it in him to stand up to Marcus like that.” Respect was clear in her voice. “He did what I couldn’t” She turned her head toward them, “There’s a virus Marcus sent to them with the equipment you’re looking for, they’re sitting ducks out there with limited air!”

“Which of the Alpha Omega buildings is the transmitter in?” Sharon pleaded.















Chapter 36

Begin Again

In the terrible Saturn winds, Cole steadied himself. Feeling vulnerable in his suit, he took a deep breath, and hoisted himself outside onto the external hand-holds.

The batteries would be located by the microwave engines, far ahead, just behind the vast dome. Radiating fields of distortion and darkness emanated around the other side of it, and Cole finally got a hint of why GRACIE said she was struggling with the sample. It must be enormous, he thought.

The Saturn winds roared around him, and he felt them pushing him in every direction as he clung to the handles. Rows of them reached all the way from the hatch to the girders.Thank God we’re floating WITH the wind, he thought.

The clouds hung thick in all directions, with the starry night showing through a hole in the sky. Cole threaded his way along the handles, holding tightly. He arrived at the girders, where he tethered himself with a carabiner. Out on the girders, among other devices, a module came into sight, marked by bright nuclear symbols. Beside it was the pie-tin shape of the microwave engine. Cole endured the blasting wind as he pulled himself along the framework. The task tested his strength to its limits. Once again he felt grateful for the bouts of arm-wrestling with Bitboi.

With a careful touch, he was able to pry open the side panel and locate the nuclear diamond battery box. With the tools in his pouch, he loosened the screws holding the box in place. The screws flew out, never to be seen again. He then carefully unplugged the wires, then sealed the panel and cradled the box with care. Holding it under one elbow, it was with athletic determination that he made his way back to the airlock. He sealed it, and Taylor cracked open the interior hatch to let him in. Cole never imagined he’d feel so glad to see another human being.

He removed his helmet. “Damn, it's windy out there. But the unit was easy enough.”

Taylor cheered, “Good work, Captain!”

Samantha held a hand out expectantly. “Hand it over, chief. I got this.”

Cole obliged. “Here are you diamonds m’lady”

Samantha groaned at the joke as she took the plasma torch and wires. She speedily got to work, splicing cables into the ship's systems. Bitboi jumped on Cole, eager to see him again. Before long, the lights flickered, then remained on. The humming of the air scrubber was followed by the gentle whoosh of fresh oxygen, and the team heaved a sigh of relief.

Cole commented, “You’ve got welding down to an art. Maybe you can repair your sense of humor next.”

“All right, all right,” she grinned. She chuckled as she booted up the computers again. She immediately pulled up the system logs. “You're not going to like this. It wasn’t the system update.”

Taylor inquired, “Then what caused the blackout?”

“A virus, looks like we got a secret admirer back on earth sending us poison valentines. The Federation wouldn’t do that. So what the hell?” Samantha replied.

Taylor considered this for a moment. Cole was snacking on a food pouch alongside a happily munching monkey. The news interrupted his snacktime. “Lots of people want me dead. This isn’t the first time somebody’s tried to derail this mission. Ricardo and I were attacked on the way to the training center.”

Ricardo was probably still moping in his bunk.

Samantha said, “We can try to deal with the virus later and get GRACIE back online but for now we’ve got to figure out what to do with the payload stuck in the ship's cargo door? We still have a mission to complete, and we’re dead in the water until we can get the door closed.”

Taylor noted, “Ricardo’s in no shape to go out there. I’ll go. I think I know how we can dislodge it.”

Cole stopped chewing mid-bite. From the pit of his stomach he knew what had to be done. He spoke with food still in his cheek. “No way. You stay here, Commander. You’re the chewing gum holding this rock band together. I’ll take care of it.” Cole swallowed his food.

Samantha weighed in. “We have no way of knowing how GRACIE modified the engine, and we need the robot back online for it to get us back to Earth. You got this.”

Cole asked aloud, “So how are we going to do this?”

Taylor pointed to the scaffolding through the airlock window. “If you can get one of the rods from there, you have a shot at ousting it. That's the best low-tech approach currently available to us. Grab your tool bag and whatever else you might need.”


Cole sighed. “Alright, get me the helmet.”


Cole fastened his toolkit around his waist, and brought a bag and a strap, just in case. He sealed up his suit  again and repositioned the helmet onto his head. “Testing. Testing. One. Two. Three.”

Taylor tapped his own earpiece. “Comms work. We won't be able to do much from here, but at least we'll be able to talk.”

“How very reassuring,” Cole said.

He cycled the airlock, and returned to the withering winds outside. His tether held strong. Once again he pulled himself along the puny metal handles that adorned the edge of the ship.

The path ahead was narrow and winding, with the handles in a line that went all the way up to the head of the fuselage. They continued around the great metal sphere before disappearing over its horizon. From where he stood, the perspective made them look tiny. Nevertheless, Cole trudged through the tempest.

He drew the plasma torch and disconnected an exceptionally long rod from the girders on the port side of the ship, then strapped it to his back sideways. He felt like an ant carrying a french fry, and imagined how comical this must look. When he finally got to the front of the sphere, he was astonished by what he saw. The front of the orb looked almost like the mouth of an undersea creature, and it was filled by an asteroid-sized mass of Dark Matter. The body of it was pitch black, and the edges shimmered with inverted light.

“Commander, can you see this?” Cole radioed.

Taylor's voice came through, tinny with static. “We don't have visuals. What do you see?”

Cole said, “It’s bigger than I thought. The size of a coffee table. I don't know if I can dislodge it.”

Taylor recounted, “Archimedes would disagree.”

Cole admitted, “I know, I know. ‘Give me a lever long enough, blah blah blah. Let’s see if this giant french fry is long enough.”

“You doing alright out there?” Taylor checked.

Fighting the torrent, Cole unstrapped the long rod from his back. He tied one end of a long nylon strap to it, and sought out a spot where he could insert the rod between the ship’s mouth and the dark chunk. He found a cavity within reaching distance, and jammed the metal pole in. He retreated a few yards along the railings, and threaded the strap through them. In a one-man game of tug-o-war, he widened his stance and  steadied himself. With a hefty pull on the nylon strap, he wrenched back the rod slowly. To his relief, the asteroid of Dark Matter freed itself, actually seeming to push away from the ship's face.

Cole reported in. “Easy as pie.”

But he would swallow his words. Just as easily as the sample was removed, chunks of it blew off into the atmosphere. Driven by the irresistible, churning winds, a football piece size took flight. As if by its own volition the chunk slammed directly into Cole’s helmet. Shattering it.











Chapter 37

The Message

Federal Police swarmed the warehouse. “Alpha Omega Distribution” read in big, painted letters on the side of the building. Along one side, several trucks with the Alpha Omega Corp emblem were docked.

With a battering ram's impact on one of the building's metal side doors, the foremost officer was the first through, followed by the padded footfalls of his comrades. Bulked out in heavy body armor, and with their guns drawn, they rushed past huge shelves and forklifts. The skylights along the ceiling shone dimly, casting shadows in all directions.

In a far corner, a large platform about 30 square yards was erected. A large drum-shaped object sat on top of the platform. Several long tubes and antennae sprouted vertically from its top, reaching to the heavens. On all sides of the platforms, generators roared noisily along.

“That's it,” one of the officers noted.

Gunfire erupted from the darkness.

Another officer shouted, “We've got company!”

The team leader came over their earpieces. “Respond with force.”

The police returned a wave of bullets. Two, then five of Marcus' thugs painted the walls with their blood. It was all over, almost as quickly as it began.

“Device secured, Chancellor. Shall we extract it?” said the team leader.

From his car outside, Chancellor DeMint held a microphone close to his mouth. “Not yet. Secure the area. I'm coming in.” He emerged from his sedan with a heavy bag slung over his shoulder.

With officers shielding either side of the ruined door, he entered the building. Scatters of gunfire still blazed at the end of the warehouse. Undeterred, DeMint strode through the aisles of cargo and approached the transmitter. He withdrew a laptop from his bag, and plugged it into the machine. 

Behind him, a Federal tech busied himself on the keyboard. “Sir, I've located the temporary files.”

“Read them to me.” DeMint ordered.

“There was an update package as well. The last message sent was “Stop all harvesting. Return to Earth immediately if possible. Signed, Vance Black.”

DeMint was curious. “When was it sent?”

“Today at 11:30 AM.” the tech answered.

“He was already dead by then. Somebody else sent it. What's in the update package?” asked DeMint.

The tapping of the laptop was barely audible over the noise of the generators. The analyst reported, “It's a command sequence. Looks like... Looks like it shuts down auxiliary systems. Holy smokes!”

DeMint gritted his teeth. “That means they'll be out of air shortly. Marcus will pay for this. Send an updated data package immediately. And, uh, copy this file. Check your email.”

He forwarded a file to the analyst, who took notice of the format. “An MP3?”

“Trust me, it may be just what they need.” DeMint replied.

- - - - -

When the Federal Police showed up at the Estate of Marcus Simons in the wee hours of the morning, they were met by his very surprised butler and maid. When the police ransacked his office, they found a black and white photocopy on his desk: a cavalier picture of a single hand giving the finger.

























Chapter 38

A Journey of Trauma



The chunk of Dark Matter had knocked Cole unconscious, as he came to, a sparkling haze filled his view and he could only sense being in a body. The sparkles crystalized and became more and more vivid. He could see the very texture of the molecules shaping each crystal. The crystals grew into the size of mountains, and then Cole felt the exhilaration of falling.

As if from a great height, he felt like he was falling deep into his own mind. He felt as big as the universe itself, and he fell straight towards the center of it.

Fear gripped his mind and the sensation of falling was becoming too intense. Without skipping a beat, and without explanation he found himself standing in the hallway of his childhood home. He walked around the corner into the living room where he saw his mom. She was younger than he'd ever seen her. A daytime talk show occupied a TV screen across from her. Cole observed that she was stone faced, the TV was not for entertainment, but to keep her company. He saw, on his mom’s face, erosion from years of depression and stress.

A piercing noise from deeper inside the house distracted him from this moment, he followed its direction. The chocolate-colored carpet gave way to his shoes, as if the foam underneath had given up and was now more of an idea of padding. He traveled down a hall he could trace by memory, arriving in front of his bedroom door. An infant was screaming from inside. He opened the door and saw the child on the floor. He could tell from baby pictures it was himself. No more than 2 years old, the child had beet red cheeks, and tears and snot ran down his face in streams. He could tell that his mom had placed the baby in the crib against the wall, and the child had scaled the enclosure only to fall to the floor, where it now huddled face down.

Compassion overcame Cole as he scooped the boy up in his arms. The boy continued to wail as he soothed the kid with a low, &quot;It's ok.... you’re alright... you're ok.&quot; The child had only begun to notice the presence of another person in its state of panic. The swollen eyes and tears left little ability to see, yet the little Cole became quiet to the point of simply sobbing.

Cole could feel the emotions of fear and abandonment roll through his chest and throat. He began sobbing along with the infant. He cried both for the baby, and as the baby. He allowed all of the energy that was locked in this moment to pour out of this union in waves. He was fully present and felt a love and connection for himself stronger than he ever had before. He felt the sadness and loneliness deeper and fuller than he ever had. He closed his eyes and held tightly to the little child. In that moment he realized the vulnerability and innocence of this kid. He looked at his younger self and felt an overwhelming sense of unconditional love.

&quot;You don't deserve this buddy, you did nothing wrong.”he said to himself.

He felt the guilt and shame of the baby. It had completely taken responsibility for this neglect. He felt the pure terror of the belief the child held... The belief that if someone didn't come to his aid that he would die. &quot;It's not your fault. You're not gonna die from this,&quot; and yet he knew that there was no other way for the child to understand what was going on.

In the flashing skies of Saturn, Cole was now carried in the winds like a leaf, spinning in unconscious oblivion. Shards of Dark Matter encrusted his cheeks and eyes. He awoke sitting on the Moon.

Before him, in the stark black and white of the cratered landscape sat another Cole. But he didn’t look like himself. He was bald, skinny and thin. His head gleamed from the sharp rays of sunlight, which revealed his outfit: simple white linens with a billowing hood that laid in pleats around his collar.

“Would you like to see something?” the old man queried. He turned around and walked down a path with only one set of footprints, and Cole followed. They climbed up a short hill and below them a pitch black crater filled their entire view.

Without knowing why, Cole knew what this place was. This was all of the pain and fear that had consumed his soul. This was the hollow feeling from his father abandoning him. This was the terror of being left alone at a tender age without hope. This was despair. This void was emptiness.

Several revelations ripped through Cole’s thoughts at the same time. The first was the realization at how immense and enveloping this trauma had been for him, all laid bare by the vision of this chasm.

The second truth that hit him like a crashing wave was that all the validation he received from others and all of his accomplishments would never come close to filling this black hole.

The third was a strong sense of remorse for punishing Sharon for his own self loathing, for withholding his love, and for placing all of his recent misery at her feet. He had crushed her spirit time and time again, when all she wanted to know was that she was enough for him. He felt a growing pressure in his chest, like his heart would collapse. He struggled for breath. This was hell if ever one existed.

The next two simultaneous ideas were that he needed more than anything to reach Sharon and express his remorse. On the same note he needed her to know that she was the best thing that had ever happened to him, and he would give anything to hold her one more time. What if it was too late?

Racked with indescribable pain and panic, love and desire, Cole fell prone in the dust of the Moon. He couldn’t breathe. He couldn’t move. There were several voices thundering in his head, each carrying one of these ego-shattering themes. He hyperventilated, and could only get a small groan out with each short exhale. He felt like he was trapped out of time, and that this would never pass.

“I know what you’re feeling,” the old Cole offered.

“How… could you… possibly know?” barely escaped Cole’s lips.

“I am you.” the old cole said.

Cole’s perspective instantly switched to that of the old man’s. He watched his younger self writhing in agony, wide-eyed, with his hands clutching his chest as he lay in the dust, in a sort of spasmodic fetal position. Poor little Cole was holding on desperately to the illusion of control.

Just as quickly he was back in his body on the ground. Cole was now wishing for death. There seemed to be no end to this devastating voltage of pain, and it seemed impossible that his body could withstand this abuse much longer. It felt like the air was being ripped from his lungs, from every cell in his body.“I’ll do anything. Just tell me what I have to do to redeem myself. I’ll do anything!”

As Cole processed these thoughts about his survival, a surge of desperation catapulted him to reach Sharon at all costs. 

“I have to see Sharon,” he squeaked in a hoarse whisper, “I can't leave without telling her. She has to know I love her. I need her to forgive me.” The need to redeem himself was palpable. 

Old Cole observed him with compassion. Cole saw that old Cole’s eyes were replaced by white lights, burning like embers in ashen sockets. His eyebrows and cheeks were scarred by the blow of dark matter to his face and helmet just moments ago. But, Cole was in another stream of time now and it felt like years had passed.

The old man spoke. “Sharon needs to forgive you? Is that in her choice or yours? Are you overlooking someone whose forgiveness is even more valuable?”

Cole looked at the old man, puzzled “Who’s is that?”

“You have to receive forgiveness from yourself before you can receive it from anyone else” old Cole offered gently.

“Don’t you think I would have forgiven myself by now if it were possible?” Cole asked.

Old Cole laughed. “Sometimes it takes us longer than 50 years to learn a lesson. Why have you given up after such a short amount of time?”

Cole was tongue-tied. “I don’t want to be here, I’ve gotta get back. Wait. Where's my helmet?”

“Where do you think you are?” the old Cole asked. 

“Am I dead?” Surely no one could endure this much pain and live, Cole thought.

The old man squatted, and goaded Cole, “In order to die you must have actually lived. Can you recall a time in which you were truly living?”

Cole pictured Sharon. Flashes of her smile, their hands interlocked, an arm wrapping a blanket over her shoulder on a cold fall night. He saw a strobe of birthday candles, fights, sunsets, Emily’s face bursting into laughter during one of their late night talks. He saw himself shutting the truck on his Tercel with his bags inside as he left for the Academy. He remembered opening a letter that read “Congratulations Cadet Nova. You’ve been selected for our flight training program”. He saw Emily’s beaming face, full of pride. He felt the vomit spew from his mouth as the G-force spindle revealed his limits, and the thrill of feeling the boosters explode beneath him on his first launch.

Old Cole smiled in witness of these memories, and knelt close to Cole. “Those looked like pretty good memories to me. Why did you stop living?”

“I don’t know if you ever recover from a childhood like mine. I felt like I didn’t deserve to live.”Cole murmured, “Emily… Sharon…”

The old man observed, “Even if you save her from her illness, will not Emily die one day?”

Cole scanned the horizon. Craters, as far as the eye could see. “Uh, yeah.”

“And if you return to Sharon, won't each of you die eventually?” His knees cracked as he stood back up.“Nobody leaves this life alive. Isn't it wonderful?”

Cole felt wracked by sudden visions of the deaths of his former crew mates. He groaned and screamed, fully immersed in reliving that moment again and again. With each slap of his hands on the ground, Moon dust sprayed in every direction.

The old man asked, “Is it working yet?”

The visions let up, and Cole begged, “Is what working?”

“The guilt. The shame. The self-indulgent hatred. The drama. It almost feels like meaning, huh? It feels like control, doesn’t it?” the old man jeered. He appeared to be entirely amused.

Cole admitted, “I hate it. It's eating me alive.”

The old man laughed aloud. “Seems to me you’re quite addicted to the pain. Do you think you can change the past?”

“I have to fix it! ” Cole exclaimed, quite offended.

“How much energy do you have left?” old Cole asked.

Cole felt indignant. “But, I did so many things wrong. I have to change it!”

“Learn, let go, and have some gratitude for the lesson. Try it. You’ll like it, I promise.” old Cole responded.

Cole looked at Old Cole narrowly, distrusting his words. The old man continued, “Just like you said to the little guy, you didn’t deserve it. But think about it. Does anyone deserve anything?”

“I deserve to pay for the lives of my crew,” Cole stated bluntly.

Old Cole snickered, “That’s a great plan. Do you think it will work?”

“I… I guess not.” Cole’s words faded. The pain wracking his body disappeared as he came to accept it.

Old Cole asked him, “Whose choice is it to learn from your past mistakes?”

“But my crew…” Cole started. 

“Were you doing your best?” old Cole interrupted.

“Yes, but…” Cole tried.

“Alright then.”old Cole stated.

The still night air felt ethereal on Cole's face. He couldn't tell if it was hot or cold, yet he didn't feel numb either. Cole asked, “How can I forget about the people I killed?”

The old man asked in return, “Who said anything about forgetting? What if you chose to honor them instead of wearing the shame around your neck like ugly jewelry? Carrying that weight is as futile as trying to build furniture with water. Sure, there are consequences, but their only value is greater wisdom in the present moment. What if you were grateful for the wisdom? What if you used gratitude to shift who you are to who you want to be?”

Cole was fed up with this lecture. “What do you know? Leave me-”

“Alone. As you wish.” Old Cole disappeared, leaving Cole to himself.

For an indeterminate amount of time, Cole wandered the surface of the Moon. There were no days, no nights. Time stretched on endlessly. At first, Cole tried to find something to build himself a shelter. The rocks fell down no matter where he placed them.

He did anything to occupy his time. But it was just him and his broken space helmet on the Moon. He took care to avoid the dark canyon. He reasoned with himself, trying to figure out how to escape, but of course there was no spaceship in sight. “Why isn’t anything working?”

He knew he’d have to face that abyss, but refused. He became angrier and angrier. At long last he despaired, sitting in the crisp shadow of a white boulder. He couldn’t feel hunger or thirst, only a crushing hopelessness. He lay in the Moon dust for an eternity. When he was finally satisfied with hopelessness, he stood back up, brushed himself off, and started walking. After leagues of silent footfalls, he came to the edge of the canyon abyss. It spread wide in every direction. He couldn’t even see the far edge of it. He pictured himself waving a white flag over his head.  He jumped off the rocky edge and into the darkness. He fell into the murky shadows, and surrendered to the fear. He fell for an eternity, this was acceptance. This was letting go.





Chapter 39

Integration

Cole found himself in the back seat of his old Toyota Tercel. He saw his teenage self in the driver’s seat, wearing a new ball cap with the familiar pizza logo.

Baby Cole was nestled in a booster chair on the passenger side, bubbling with joy and giggling between bites of pizza. His face was smeared with red marinara sauce. Cole couldn’t help but laugh with joy and how rich the little kid felt. Old Cole was buckled in next to Cole in the back. Teenage Cole seethed with anger about his dad, about Marcus, about how unfair his life was.

“Hey,” Cole started from the back seat, “It doesn’t stay like this, you’ll see. It gets better, you don’t know how good you have it. Emily’s gonna help you achieve some cool shit. You’re going to meet this wonderful woman named Sharon. You’re going to make friends with some of the coolest ‘Astros’ and go on some crazy adventures.” He was moved with both compassion and excitement.

But teenage Cole couldn’t hear him. “Everytime I get my hopes up...” he started to cry in the privacy of his car.

“It’s frustrating when they can’t hear you, isn’t it?” old Cole said with a little too much glee.

“I get it,” Cole admitted.

“You’re starting too, it takes practice. If there’s anything worth practicing the rest of your life it’s this.” old Cole encouraged.

“Self love?” Cole asked.

”Discovering the self love that’s always been there takes work,” old Cole continued, “but as someone once said ‘You work harder than most people I know.’”

Cole smiled as he pictured Emily saying this so long ago. Old Cole, current Cole and baby Cole were all smiling with tears of joy in their eyes. In the following breath the four Coles merged into one being and he made himself a commitment. 

He would do whatever it took as long as it took to discover this self love. Sharon's voice resounded across the black sky. “I love you, Cole Nova. Please come home to me.”

Immediately Cloe was painfully present back on the floor of the “Golden Dawn”. His lungs burned for oxygen and as he struggled to open his eyes shards of dark matter fell from his face.

“Cole? Cole!” Ricardo's voice pounded in his ears.

“Sharon?!” Cole tried to sit upright. Everything was spinning. The lights felt like they were screaming at him.

Ricardo roared, “Cole, you're back!” and hugged him tightly. Bitboi Leroy wrapped his arms around both of them, and they felt like they'd be crushed.

Taylor slapped Cole on the shoulder hard. “I knew you could do it. It worked, you did it!”

Cole said, “I feel like I got hit by a truck. What happened?”

Taylor recounted, “Ricardo pulled it together. He and Bitboi went out to rescue you. They risked their lives and brought you back in. Man, you should've seen it.”

Ricardo practically jumped for joy. “Black rocks flying at us, this big around. It was crazy!”

Bitboi joined in the cheering with whoops and whistles.

“We thought we were retrieving your body, you showed absolutely no signs of coming back to life until that recording of Sharon came over the intercom. They sent us a patch to the previous virus, it’s a miracle that they have any way of communicating with us this far out.” There were tears in the corner of Taylor's eyes as he talked.

Samantha announced, “All systems online.”

GRACIE announced, “Storage full. This is your pilot GRACIE speaking. Thank you for riding Golden Dawn starlines. Please extinguish all smoking items, including this ship if necessary. Our estimated flight time to Houston is approximately ninety minutes. We're expecting clear skies tonight and no additional turbulence. Feel free to lean back, relax, and enjoy the ride. The GOLDEN DAWN is going home in three. Two. One.”

Through the airlock windows, the sky turned to long streaks of light, and then to pitch black.
















Chapter 40

Home Sweet Home

The sound of crashing bowling pins filled the air along with the smell of beer and pretzels. Emily sat in between Cole and Sharon. It was the first time she’d been out of the house aside from treatments, “I can’t believe the difference. I showered by myself this morning. I did a load of laundry! Who thought that would be a reason to celebrate?” she turned to Cole with gratitude in her eyes. “Thank you Cole, thank you for giving me my life back. I know it wasn’t easy.”

Cole had to take a second and clear his throat. He let his scarred eyes tear up with gratitude. “You were there with me Em. More than you know.” he turned to Sharon and mimicked Dorathy from ‘The Wizard of Oz’ “And you were there too!” He was having fun but he meant it. Sharon was still stunned by these moments of sentiment. Cole had made it back, but he was different. The new Cole, no new wasn’t the right word. More of Cole came back than had left. She had loved and appreciated him before but now there was so much more of him.

“Hey, there’s no crying in bowling.” Ricky joked. “Now watch the real master in action.”

With another strike, Ricardo threw his hands up in celebration. “Woo, Perfection. Absolute perfection.”

Sharon cheered, “Great work, Ricardo.”

Ricardo strutted towards the group with his chest puffed out. “See that, Cole? Your lady could be cheering for you too if you'd try a little harder. Do you need me and the monkey to come save you again?”

Still seated, Cole put his arms around Sharon and Emily drawing them closer. “Yeah, yeah. Hey, you worry about competing with your own record. Not everyone’s ready for the bowling olympics.”

Sharon nudged him. “Is that a thing? I figured saving the world is good enough for me.” She snuggled in, enjoying his warmth.

Cole asked, “Hey, Ricky, You mind lending me that book of yours?”

Ricardo kidded, “Like Thor’s hammer, it can only be summoned by the worthy. Coley Coley no-bowley just doesn’t like to be outclassed. He’s used to being the hero.”

“Maybe I’m ready to turn that role over to someone else. Hey Commander Taylor, Mind taking over the ‘hero’ job title for me?”

Taylor and Samantha sat across from them in the little semicircle that contained their group. They were holding hands, and had been inseparable since returning. They both smiled at his offer. “The ring of power is a heavy responsibility,” Taylor quipped.

“Speaking of rings,” Ricardo announced, “Let this strike ring in your ears,” He turned his head and hollered with his hand by his mouth, ”Dani! Dani come here and pepper your one true champion with kisses.”

A rotund, cherubic woman was chit-chatting with the cashier, but at Ricardo's call she told the young man, “Excuse me for a moment.” She cat-stepped across the carpet and threw her ample arms around Ricardo's shoulder, planting her lips all over his face.

He said to her, in the sweetest and most sincere way, “I love every inch of you. Want to do this full-time?”

Dani opened her mouth in surprise. “Are you asking me to marry you?”

Ricardo raised a finger, indicating her to wait, and pulled a small box out of his official Brunswick Bowling jacket. Dani clasped her fingers, overjoyed, and she bounced on her toes in sheer excitement. Ricardo knelt on one knee, and opened it to reveal a glimmering ring of white gold, capped by a dark gem.

Cole's eyes went wide. “That's not Dark Matter, is it?”

“Psh. That would evaporate. This is moissanite, twice as good.” Ricky retorted. 

Sharon asked, “Isn't that just silicon carbide? Like a drill bit?”

Dani shouted, “It's perfect! I love it!”

Ricardo arose and drew her into a loving embrace. “A star gem. Ethically sourced, too, unlike a diamond.”

Bitboi Leroy tried his hands at bowling, and they all cheered for him every time he rolled the ball inevitably into the gutter.

Sharon put her hand on Cole's shoulder. She leaned over “Hey, babe, do you want to do this full time?”

Cole looked long into her dark, endless eyes, and he could feel through his being that the entire universe was opening up to him. “I thought you'd never ask.”

With the softest countenance, she held his hands with a loving touch.

Emily squealed with delight. “You two, Oh my gosh.”

“Is it okay if I want a real diamond?” Sharon asked.

“Of course, baby girl. Nothing but the best for you.” Cole agreed.

“I’ll tell you what, Bitboi can be our best man.” she said.

“You don't hate him anymore?” Cole asked.

“As long as he isn't... Oh no. Oh no.” she stammered.

Cole held her waist. “What's wrong, babe?”

Sharon grabbed his scarred face in both hands and turned his head forcibly towards the bar. “Look!”

Bitboi Leroy's hand had snuck through the security flap of a vending machine, reaching for an energy drink. He already held two others in his additional hands, with two more empty, crushed cans by his feet. His eyes bulged. Bright liquids dripped down his furry chest, and his body was visibly shaking now. He enthusiastically howled.

Taylor and Samantha were on their feet and could sense something was going down. Ricardo's attention was taken away from Dani for the moment. He laid eyes on Bitboi. Ricardo immediately grabbed Dani by the hand and physically pulled her towards the front door.

Oblivious to his sudden terror, she giggled in delight, “You want to get married RIGHT NOW?”

Sharon groaned, “I left my stomach pump at my apartment.”

Cole shrieked at the top of his lungs, “Everybody out! RUN!!!”



THE END























Epilogue



Marcus Simons phone had practically buzzed off his nightstand the night before the raid. Most of his contacts were warning him, from the local and state police departments to federal agencies. Within an hour he was on a private jet to Dubai.  This morning he sat at a crystal table with one of the crowned princes sipping coffee with a spectacular view of the city below. He watched the news in amusement from a tablet on his lap. All the years of bribing, buying, and ensnaring had paid off.

He did not live by the same rules as the rest of society. None of his associates did. They all played similar games of power and blackmail. They were born for it. He knew his businesses would be shut down temporarily. For show the government would seize equipment and close buildings in front of well placed news cameras. The assets and contracts would end up in the hands of  new companies, companies that were also secretly owned by Marcus and his friends. It was all for the sake of public perception. The same politicians grandstanding and ringing their hands on the news would be the same making backroom deals. The ‘representatives’ knew where their money came from and couldn’t live without it.

Marcus also knew he’d have to be more discreet when traveling. It would take some time for CEOs to feel safe appearing in public with him again. He’d avoid the public eye, but his phone and email would be buzzing. These shifts of money and power allowed for the younger class to jockey for position and there’d be a new class of brokers. Marcus was irritated most of all by the fact that he wouldn’t be able to travel to the US for a while. Murder charges and the like were expensive to get rid of. You only get one pardon card from the president and it doesn’t come quickly.

He had conquered global commerce and now set his sights on a much bigger territory. Intergalactic mining and space travel were lucrative and he already had a foundation in place for these sectors. His mind was so rarely troubled with concern for others that he had extra capacity for strategies and systems. As far as he was concerned, humans were just over emotional animals. He had grown tired of this game. He wanted his own civilization to experiment with.




